Exploring Roadmap | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Exploring Roadmap Whether you're starting out or already on a path toward a degree, UO Advising's Exploring Roadmap will help you navigate along the way to success. Below are the milestones and exploration activities you'll want to check off your list at different points in your journey. YEAR ONE • YEAR TWO • TRANSFER • YEAR THREE + BEYOND Year 1: Explore your interests & identify your skills Milestones Complete three exploration activities (see below) to help reflect on your interests, values and skills. Meet with an advisor at least twice, in two separate terms. Complete a sample three term plan with an advisor. Review the majors that UO offers using the course catalog. Complete at least one core education course in each area of interest and one writing course. Become familiar with the degree guide so you can easily understand core education requirements needed to graduate for each area of interest. Make an initial decision on type of bachelor’s degree (BA, BS, other). At end of year, take time to reflect on areas you’re most interested in so far. Exploration Activities Learn common career paths for over 100 different majors with the What Can I Do With This Major? tool. Complete a Values Card Sort activity to align your choices with what you value most. Discover your Enneagram personality type to identify key traits and motivations. Take an introductory course to learn more about a major or minor of interest. Seek input from peers already in a major of interest. Seek input from friends or family members who work in fields of interest. Seek input from friends or family members about your own strengths and interests. Review majors at UO and sort into categories of: “No Interest”, “Possible Interest,” “Very Interested.” Attend an open house, information session, or event for a major of interest. Complete the Vita Navis Career Assessment. Activate Handshake and look at three postings that interest you. Complete a self-assessment inventory (ONET, 16 personalities). Meet with a professor in an area of interest. Meet with an academic or career advisor in a major of interest. Back to Top Year 2: Find your passion & Declare your major Milestones Start making progress towards BA or BS requirements (proficiency in a second language or math) and continue to complete an additional course in each area of inquiry. Explore outside of the classroom: Volunteer, job shadow or join a student organization related to your interests. Meet again with an advisor at least twice, in two separate terms. Meet with a professor or advisor in the area you’re most interested in and check out that department’s webpages. Once you’ve narrowed down your options, discuss next steps to declare/apply to the major with an advisor Declare/Apply by the end of your second year! Exploration Activities Job shadow in field of interest Join a student organization related to major of interest. Volunteer for an agency or group in area of interest. Create or revise your resume, including transferable skills from high school and 1st year. Back to Top TRANSFER STUDENTS: EXPLORING ON A FAST TRACK Milestones Complete two exploration activities (see below) to help reflect on your interests, values and skills . Meet with an advisor at least twice, in two separate terms. Complete a sample three term plan with an advisor. Complete at least half of the core education requirements. Complete both required writing courses. Complete, or mostly complete, your BA or BS requirements (proficiency in a second language or math) depending on the major you plan to pursue. Declare/Apply by the end of first year at UO! Exploration Activities First term for Junior admits and first two terms for Sophomore admits: Learn common career paths for over 100 different majors with the What Can I Do With This Major? tool. Complete a Values Card Sort activity to align your choices with what you value most. Discover your Enneagram personality type to identify key traits and motivations. Take an introductory course to learn more about a major or minor of interest. Seek input from peers already in a major of interest. Seek input from friends or family members who work in fields of interest . Seek input from friends or family members about your own strengths and interests. Review majors at UO and sort into categories of: “No Interest”, “Possible Interest,” “Very Interested.” Attend an open house, information session, or event for a major of interest. Complete the Vita Navis Career Assessment. Activate Handshake and look at three postings that interest you. Complete a self-assessment inventory (ONET, 16 personalities) Meet with a professor in an area of interest. Meet with an academic or career advisor in a major of interest. Second or third term: Job shadow in a field of interest Join a student organization related to major of interest Volunteer for an agency or group in area of interest Create or revise your resume, including transferable skills from high school and previous institution. Back to Top Year 3 + Beyond: THE EXPLORATION JOURNEY DOESN'T END AFTER YOU DECLARE Milestones Meet with a major advisor regularly to learn about opportunities within your department and to make sure you’re on track with degree requirements. Consider opportunities like research, internships, or study abroad to get the most out of your time at UO. Think about specific skills and proficiencies you’d like to develop to help with your career path. Think about and explore potential minors. Engage with career center resources and events. Meet with a career coach. Update your resume and tap into trainings available on LinkedIn Learning. Exploration Activities Do research credits in major of interest. Complete an internship in area of interest. Attend career fairs and other events to meet potential employers. Consider taking a leadership role or part-time job related to your career interests. If considering graduate school, research programs and application timelines and schedule needed entrance exams. Connect with a career readiness coach in the UO Career Center. Create a LinkedIn profile. Update resume and create a sample cover letter. Back to Top Explore Majors Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.