Quick Questions | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Quick Questions If you have a quick question for an advisor, check this list out first. We might be able to save you some time and get you information right away. Looking for registration support during IntroDUCKtion? Use the button below! IntroDUCKtion Assistance Class Registration Topics General Registration First Term/Transfer Students Major Withdrawing General Education Repeating Courses & Incompletes Academic Standing Other Programs & Resources Graduation Student Success & Other Questions GENERAL Who is my advisor? Is it important to get to know professors? What are office hours for? Can I take a term off from school and return? What GPA is necessary to make the Dean's List? How do I change a course from graded to Pass/No Pass? What happens if I have several final exams scheduled on the same day? Who is my advisor? Students with declared majors have an academic home and are assigned to an advisor or multiple advisors from their College and School, major department, to specialized advising programs and services. Students can check the name of their assigned advisor or advising unit by looking at the "Student General Information" screen of Duck Web . You can also review the advising list for the most relevant advising contact. Many students find it helpful to meet each academic term. It is important to plan ahead and not wait until busy registration times to arrange a meeting Is it important to get to know professors? What are office hours for? It is always useful to get to know your professors. Professors keep office hours, and the times and locations will be on your syllabus, usually distributed on the first day of class. Office hours are a good time to discuss ideas generated in class, clarify assignments, and share common enthusiasms with professors. Eventually, you may well be asking professors for letters of recommendation, and strong, specific letters require that your professor know you as well as your work. Can I take a term off from school and return? Yes. If you return the next term you can simply register for classes along with UO continuing students. If you are away for more than three terms (not counting summer), you will need to file a re-enrollment form with the Office of the Registrar . Courtesy suggests that you notify your advisor of your plan to take time off. If you are receiving financial aid, be sure to discuss the implications with a financial aid counselor. You should also discuss your plans with University Housing if you are living in university housing. Summer session allows an opportunity to make up some classes missed during the regular school year. What GPA is necessary to make the Dean's List? Dean’s List designations are given to admitted undergraduates with a term GPA of at least 3.75 who have completed 15 total credits, with at least 12 credits graded. These designations are given fall, winter, and spring terms. These students receive a special designation on their academic records. How do I change a course from graded to pass/no pass? When you register for a course, DuckWeb automatically selects the graded option for classes where variable grading is available. If you wish to take the pass/no pass option, click "change variable credit/grading option" on the registration menu in DuckWeb. To make a grading option change for a course with an associated section, such as a lecture course with a lab or discussion section, use only the CRN of the lecture. In other words, change the grading option for the lecture but not the lab or discussion associated with the lecture. See the academic calendar for the deadline to change grading options. Remember to view your class schedule in text format to confirm that the changes you make are correct What happens if I have several final exams scheduled on the same day? You should review the schedule of final examinations on your DuckWeb schedule prior to registering to avoid conflicts, or if you wish to avoid multiple examinations on a single day. If you are scheduled to take MORE than three examinations in one day you may take an examination(s) as a make-up exam(s) at another time in the week. The Office of Academic Advising in 101 Oregon Hall will counsel students with multiple examination problems. You should contact the Office of Academic Advising at least two weeks BEFORE final examination week. [ Return to Top ] REGISTERING Where do I get a class schedule and a catalog? When do I register for classes? What is a PAC? What is a PIN? Where do I get a class schedule and a catalog? The class schedule and the UO Catalog are both available online. When do I register for classes? Look at the list of when to register by going to the registration priority schedule . Priority for registration is determined by the number of credits you have completed. The more credits you have completed, the earlier you are able to register. For example, seniors (students who have completed more than 134 credits) register before sophomores (students who have completed 45-89 credits). Your registration time will also vary each term according to the last three digits of your student ID number. What is a PAC? What is a PIN? A PAC is your personal access code. It ensures the security of your academic and financial records. Used with your student ID number, your PAC is your password to registering for classes and for using DuckWeb . The Office of Admissions provides you with your PAC when you apply for admission. When you first use your PAC, you will be asked to create a security question. If you have problems with your PAC, visit the Office of the Registrar on the 2nd Floor Oregon Hall with your photo ID. The first time you register as a regularly enrolled student, you will need not only your ID and PAC, but a "registration PIN" as well. Your advisor will provide you with this PIN after you have attended IntroDUCKtion and been advised by a major advisor or an advisor who works with undeclared students. Your advisor will give you a PIN after you have participated in an academic orientation and advising session. If you forget it or have trouble registering because of the PIN, please contact the Office of Academic Advising at 541-346-3211 or come to 101 Oregon Hall. [ Return to Top ] FIRST TERM / TRANSFER STUDENT For frequently asked questions related to admission to the UO, please visit the Office of Admissions . I've just been admitted to the university. When do I register for classes? What if I am unable to attend IntroDUCKtion? How many courses should I take my first quarter? How do I get an e-mail address? How do AP, IB, CLEP, and military credits transfer to the UO? Is it possible to get credit by taking an examination without enrolling in a course? How do I know whether the courses I took at another school transferred (and the number of credits transferred)? How do I know what requirements I have already satisfied? I've just been admitted to the university. When do I register for classes? Registration for all new students occurs as a part of IntroDUCKtion or International Student Orientation . Orientations for students admitted for fall term include the May Advising Day for transfer students, IntroDUCKtion (in July), and Week of Welcome (in September). Students admitted for winter or spring term or summer session will attend a Mid-Year IntroDUCKtion. It is mandatory for all admitted undergraduate students to attend an orientation program. You will not be permitted to register for classes without attending an advising program. What if I am unable to attend IntroDUCKtion? If you are admitted as a freshman for the fall term, you should make every effort to attend IntroDUCKtion . At IntroDUCKtion, students receive an introduction to general academic and graduation requirements for the university. You will also have the opportunity to meet with a departmental or undeclared advisor who will help you select classes for the upcoming term and clarify the registration process. After you meet with an advisor, you will register for fall term courses in a campus computer lab. If you are unable to attend IntroDUCKtion, you are required to come to Week of Welcome, which occurs in September. Week of Welcome is your final opportunity for orientation, advising, and registration for fall term. You will attend an academic advising workshop and an individual advising appointment before you will be able to register for your classes. Information about Week of Welcome is mailed to new students in August. How many courses should I take my first quarter? Four academic courses (a total of approximately 15-16 credits) are recommended per term. You must register for at least 12 credits to be considered a full-time undergraduate student. Some students may take more or fewer credits depending on their interests and whether they have other time commitments including jobs, family, and/or commuting. When you meet with an advisor at IntroDUCKtion, they will talk to you about your schedule and help you determine how many credits will be appropriate for you. How do I get an e-mail address? Visit DuckID.uoregon.edu for detailed information about requesting an account and getting an e-mail address. How do AP, IB, CLEP, and military credits transfer to the UO? Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), Military Credit, and College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) allow students to receive college credits. AP and IB tests are given to high school students. When you meet with your academic advisor at IntroDUCKtion, they will go over what credits you are transferring in through these and other programs. AP, IB, CLEP, and military credit are awarded P* (Pass, no option of a letter grade) grades and count toward the 168 ABCDP* hours requirement. Advanced Placement credit: For AP, only scores of 4 or 5 are considered for credit for most AP exams beginning in fall 2008. A score of 3 receives credit only on selected AP exams. Refer to the advanced credit on the registrar's website for further details. International Baccalaureate credit: For IB, only scores of 5 are considered for credit. College-Level Examination Program credit: A national College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) allows students to earn college credit by taking general exams in humanities, social sciences, and sciences, as well as subject exams. The general exams are limited to those who have completed fewer than 90 college credits. Military Credit: As recommended by the American Council on Education’s Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services , and in accordance with university and state policies regarding transfer credit, the UO generally grants credit for military educational experience. Is it possible to get credit by taking an examination without enrolling in a course? Yes, it is, for some courses. Students who are admitted to and enrolled at the UO can challenge undergraduate courses—with the approval of the department—to earn credit by examination. While you can sometimes receive a grade for a credit by examination exam, it will not count toward your GPA. For more information consult the Office of the Registrar. How do I know whether the courses I took at another school transferred (and the number of credits transferred)? Once you are admitted as a UO student, but before you attend a new student orientation, you can view your transfer evaluation report on DuckWeb . These reports will show you how your previous college coursework has transferred to the UO. You should use these tools for planning future classes and bring them to your scheduled orientation session. See the Office of the Registrar for transfer equivalency information. It is important that you verify that all of your credit has been transferred to the UO Office of the Registrar. If you take classes somewhere other than the UO, be sure to submit an official transcript to the registrar . How do I know what requirements I have already satisfied? View your degree audit on DuckWeb . Click on “student menu.” Click on “view degree audit.” Address questions about transfer credits to a record specialist in the Office of Admissions, 220 Oregon Hall, or contact them by phone at 541-346-3243. [ Return to Top ] MAJOR Do I have to have a major? When and how do I declare my major? How do I choose a major? Do I have to complete a minor? How do I declare a minor? Do I have to have a major? Yes. In order to graduate with an undergraduate degree, you must choose and complete a major. A list of majors and minors appears in the UO Catalog . Note that while most majors allow undergraduate students to choose a BA (bachelor of arts) or a BS (bachelor of science), some majors require a BA, BS, BFA (fine arts), BArch (architecture), BEd (education), BIArch (interior architecture), BLA (landscape architecture), or BMus (music). When and how do I declare my major? Nearly half of all UO students are undecided about majors when they enter college. On average, students should try to declare a major by the winter of their sophomore year. This usually puts them in a good position to graduate in four years. However, if you are interested in a graduate program that involves a lot of classes in sequence for your undergraduate major (e.g., science courses in preparation for medical school), you may need to declare a major—or at least begin your math and science sequences—earlier in order to graduate in four years. NOTE:  Exploring majors must declare a major or pre-major by the end of 4th week of their sixth term (first-time freshmen) or their third term (transfer students).   Students who have not declared within that time frame will receive a registration PIN and must speak with an advisor before they can register for their next term.  Students are eligible to change their major at any time, however, it is imperative to speak with an advisor first before changing a major. Go to the main office of the department that oversees the major you want to declare. Then, request an appointment with an advisor in that department. NOTE: Some majors require a more formal application process. These include architecture; art; business; education; family and human services; international studies; journalism; music; and planning, public policy, and management. Students interested in these majors should meet with an advisor during their freshman and sophomore years to discuss requirements to get into these majors. How do I choose a major? Most students have plenty of time to consider potential majors during their first two years of college. Use your freshman and sophomore years to try different courses while fulfilling your general education requirements. In addition, take an elective course every term in something that interests you. Click on " choose your major " for other suggestions, inventories, and interactive activities on this topic. Attend an Office of Academic Advising workshop on choosing a major, which is offered fall, winter, and spring terms. Visit the Career Center in 204 Hendricks Hall, and talk to a career advisor about your career interests. Ask yourself: What are my interests? What classes have I enjoyed? Do I have a career in mind? Do I have to complete a minor? No. Minors are optional but are strongly encouraged. Minors require at least 24 credits. A list of minors appears in the UO Catalog . How do I declare a minor? Visit the department office of the minor you wish to add. [ Return to Top ] WITHDRAWING What can I do if I’m in a class that is over my head? When is the deadline to drop or withdraw from class(es)? How can I switch a section after the drop deadline? How do I drop my classes? What do I do if I get an “F” in a class that I thought I had dropped? What can I do if I’m in a class that is over my head? Talk with your instructor. New and unfamiliar material can feel intimidating for anyone. Study hard, immerse yourself in the subject, and then assess—with your instructor’s help—whether you really are in over your head. Consider seeking educational supports that are available on campus, such as tutoring through the Teaching and Learning Center (TLC) . Talk with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising. Know the deadlines for withdrawing or changing your grading option in the class. NOTE : To potentially avoid being over your head in a class, be sure you have met the prerequisites for a class before registering. Also, some courses are part of a yearlong sequence where each course builds on the material covered in previous courses in the sequence. Check with the department to find out whether or not you can take the class out of sequence. It might be possible for history courses but not permitted for physics or chemistry. When is the deadline to drop or withdraw from class(es)? For a calendar that includes academic deadlines, visit the website of the Office of the Registrar's academic dates and deadlines calendar . This calendar contains information about various deadlines including the deadlines for dropping and/or withdrawing. The drop deadlines vary from term to term. On the class schedule , select a term, select a course, and then click the five-digit CRN for the withdrawal deadlines and tuition refund schedule for that course. Remember to VIEW YOUR SCHEDULE IN TEXT FORMAT if you drop a class to confirm your changes are accurate. How can I switch a section after the drop deadline? You will need to petition the Academic Requirements Committee (ARC) to change sections of a course after the add/drop deadlines. To pick up a petition, please visit the Office of the Registrar on the 2nd Floor Oregon Hall. How do I drop my classes? If you drop your last class, you are withdrawing from the university for the term. Students who wish to withdraw must use DuckWeb to withdraw from one or all of their classes. If you have questions about withdrawing, please contact your academic advisor, department office, or an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising. This contact will give you the opportunity to discuss your options and address any questions you might have. More details about Complete Withdrawal are available here . What do I do if I get an “F” in a class that I thought I had dropped? You will need to petition the Scholastic Review Committee (SRC) for a retroactive withdrawal. To start the petition process, students must meet with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising. [ Return to Top ] GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS How many credits do I need to graduate? Is there a limit on the number of Pass/No Pass (P/NP) courses I can take? What is a BS and what is a BA? How do I calculate my GPA? Where do I find out all of the requirements I need to complete to earn a bachelor’s degree? How many credits do I need to graduate? All undergraduate students need at least a total of 180 credits to graduate. (Some professional degrees in the School of Architecture and Allied Arts require more than 180 credits.) A minimum of 62 of the total 180 credits must be upper-division credits (300 level and above). Is there a limit on the number of Pass/No Pass (P/NP) courses I can take? Yes. Students are generally limited to taking 12 credits of courses pass/no pass if the course is also offered for a grade. Courses that are offered only as P/NP (without a grading option) are considered P* courses. P* courses do not count towards the 12 credit limit. Regardless of the number of credits you need to finish your undergraduate degree, you need to have 168 credits in which you receive an A, B, C, D, P*. (If you graduate with more than 180 credits, the 12 credit limit could increase, but the 168 ABCDP* credits would remain.) Check your degree audit to review your progress on these and other degree requirements. What is a BS and what is a BA? A BA is a Bachelor of Arts degree. A BS is a Bachelor of Science degree. In many University of Oregon majors, students can choose to earn either a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science. Some majors lead only to a BA or BS. To earn a BA, students must demonstrate proficiency in a second language. To earn a BS, students must demonstrate proficiency in math and/or computer information science. To earn a BA, you must demonstrate proficiency in a second language that is equivalent to two years of college work. This is usually done by completing two years of a second language at the college level. These classes must be passed with a C-, P, or above. There are other ways to demonstrate language proficiency, including an examination. To earn a BS, you must demonstrate proficiency in mathematics and/or computer and information science (CIS). You can do this by passing the equivalent of one year of college-level work in mathematics and/or CIS with a C-minus, a P, or better. You may need to take up to five courses, depending on your experience in math and CIS. If you are doing a BS, a second language is not required, unless it is required for your major. However, you may want to take a language anyway. Some language classes at the second-year level and above count toward arts and letters group requirements. Once you decide to pursue either a Bachelor of Arts or a Bachelor of Science, you can declare your choice by going to the Registrar's Office, 2nd Floor Oregon Hall. How do I calculate my GPA? Grade points are calculated by assigning points for each credit of a letter grade, as follows: A+ 4.3 A 4.0 A- 3.7 B+ 3.3 B 3.0 B- 2.7 C+ 2.3 C 2.0 C- 1.7 D+ 1.3 D 1.0 D- 0.7 F 0.0 Marks I, W, X, AUD, and Y, and grades N and P are not counted in the GPA calculation. The GPA is computed by dividing the sum of points by the sum of credits of A, B, C, D, F. If a letter grade has a + or – next to it, then you add .3 points per credit for ‘+’ or subtract .3 points per credit for ‘-‘. You can find your UO GPA by looking at your transcript on DuckWeb . To figure out what grades you need in one term to affect your cumulative GPA, write down the number of "quality points" and "GPA credits" you have earned (listed at the bottom of your degree audit or transcript). Plug these numbers into the GPA calculator . Estimate your cumulative GPA by typing expected term grades, and respective number of credits, into the chart on the right. Where do I find out all of the requirements I need to complete to earn a bachelor’s degree? There are many resources available to you that explain the University of Oregon bachelor’s degree requirements. These include concise charts in the student handbook, narrative description in the student handbook and UO Catalog . Your degree audit shows how courses you have taken apply toward general university requirements, including total credits for graduation, upper-division credits, residence credits, graded credits, graded/P* credits, multicultural requirements, BA/BS requirements, and group requirements. In addition, your degree audit shows how courses you have taken apply toward your major requirements. Your degree audit is available on DuckWeb . If you have any questions on how to interpret your degree audit, please contact your major advisor or the Office of Academic Advising at 541-346-3211. [ Return to Top ] POLICIES ON REPEATING COURSES AND INCOMPLETES What is the policy on repeating courses? What does an “I” grade mean on my transcript? How long do I have to complete an Incomplete? How do I appeal a grade? What is the policy on repeating courses? University of Oregon policy on repeating courses can be found on the UO Office of the Registrar site . What does an “I” grade mean on my transcript? Instructors may assign the grade of “incomplete.” A student can request this designation, although the instructor decides whether to allow it. The “I” is appropriate when the student is passing the class and a small, but important, part of the class cannot be completed during the term of enrollment. The mark of “I” is placed on the transcript in place of a grade and indicates that coursework is not yet completed. As long as the “I” remains an “I,” it is considered non-punitive and does not affect the GPA. How long do I have to complete an Incomplete? The university requires an "I" to be removed within one calendar year (12 months). If the "I" is not completed within that time, the grade will automatically convert to an "F" ( the "I" to "F" policy does not apply to graduate students ). When an "I" grade is given, the student should negotiate a contract with the instructor assigning the "I" grade, about when and how the "I" will be changed to a grade. STUDENTS MUST NOT RE-ENROLL IN THE COURSE IN A SUBSEQUENT TERM . This is not an appropriate method for completing an "I." Instructors may establish an earlier deadline for the work required to be completed. How do I appeal a grade? Students who feel they have been graded unfairly in a course should review the issue first with the faculty member. Following this review, if the students are not satisfied they should discuss the problem with the chairperson of the department in which the course was taken. If the student does not feel satisfied with the result of meeting with the instructor or the department chairperson, he/she may make an appointment with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising by visiting 101 Oregon Hall or by calling 541-346-3211. The advisor can explain options to the student, including petitioning the Scholastic Review Committee . If you have not met with your instructor or the department chairperson, your advisor will send you to meet with them first before discussing a petition. [ Return to Top ] ACADEMIC STANDING I received a notice that I'm not in good academic standing, now what? What is Academic Warning? What is Academic Probation? What is Disqualification? Other Considerations of Disqualifications What is Reinstatement? What is Re-enrollment? Is it possible to request an exception to an academic requirement? I received a notice that I'm not in good academic standing, now what? It is important that you connect with an academic advisor to discuss your standing further. Here is a list of many of the central advising offices on campus: Office Location Contact Information Oregon Hall First Floor Advising, includes: Office of Academic Advising PathwayOregon TRiO Student Support Services 101 Oregon Hall 541-346-3211 Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence (CMAE) 135 Oregon Hall 541-346-3479 College of Design Student Services 105 Lawrence Hall 541-346-3631 College of Education (Family & Human Services and Education Foundations) HEDCO (FHS) or Lokey (EdF) Email for Appointments International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) 300 Oregon Hall 541-346-3206 Lundquist College of Business (LCB) 203 Peterson Hall 541-346-3303 Services for Student Athletes (SSA) Jaqua Academic Center 541-346-5428 School of Journalism & Communications (SOJC) 134 Allen Hall 541-346-2884 Tykeson College & Career Advising For all majors in the College of Arts & Sciences (CAS) Tykeson Hall 1st & 2nd Floors 541-346-9200 Focus on addressing any factors outside and inside the classroom that impacted your academic success previously. Some students benefit from changing their schedule for the following term if they are not currently registered for courses that they feel they can perform strongly in. Use the information above to connect with an academic advisor to help you make the best changes to your schedule possible. Some students benefit from engaging with campus resources. Accessible Education Center (AEC) Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center University Counseling Center (UCC) University Health Center Student Organization and Events Some students benefit from taking a term or more away from UO. Please note that earning “W” marks on your transcript could result in further impact on your academic standing. To withdraw without earning “W” marks you must do so by the Saturday after the first week of the term. What is Academic Warning? Academic Warning 1 and 2 each occur when a student has had a term where they earned less than a 2.0 term GPA, while their cumulative GPA remains at or above a 2.0. Academic Warning 1 standing is applied when this has occurred for only one term, and Academic Warning 2 is applied when this has occurred for two terms in a row. Neither type of Academic Warning is noted on your transcripts. What is Academic Probation? Academic probation is earned and the notation "Academic Probation" is recorded on the student's academic transcript whenever the following conditions exist: When the UO cumulative GPA is lower than 2.00. Students who have earned 44 or fewer credits are allowed two terms of probation before they are subject to disqualification. Students with more than 44 credits are only allowed one term of probation before they are subject to disqualification. Students on academic probation whose UO cumulative GPA is lower than 2.00 and whose UO term GPA is 2.00 or higher remain on academic probation. or When the student's three most recent UO term GPAs are lower than 2.00, even if the UO cumulative GPA is above a 2.00. Students on academic probation are limited to a study load of no more than 15 credits. Incoming students may be admitted on academic probation and are notified when such action has been taken; these students may be subject to disqualification after a single term of probation. Please note that academic probation is different from financial aid probation, which is imposed by the Office of Financial Aid when a student is not making satisfactory progress. What is Disqualification? Academic disqualification is earned and the notation "Disqualification" is recorded on the student's academic transcript whenever the following conditions exist: Students on academic probation for having a UO cumulative GPA lower than 2.00 who earn a UO term GPA lower than 2.00 in their next term. or 2. Students on academic probation for having their three most recent terms of UO term GPAs lower than 2.00 and who earn less than a 2.00 term GPA for the fourth consecutive term. Disqualified students are not eligible to enroll for further regular terms, except for summer session. Students are asked to take leave from the university for at least one calendar year after disqualification. During this time it is highly recommended that students take classes at a community college or another college or university to give evidence of academic ability in their petition for reinstatement. Reinstatement to the university must be approved by petition through the Scholastic Review Committee . Students should contact the Office of Academic Advising with questions regarding how to plan their course schedules while away from the university. Other Considerations of Disqualification International Students :  Please contact International Student and Scholar Services at (541) 346-3206 for information regarding your visa and immigration status. Students Receiving Financial Aid :  If you petition to remain at the UO and it passes, you may still need to petition the Office of Financial Aid to remain eligible for aid. If you have questions or concerns about this, please contact them at 541-346-3221, 260 Oregon Hall. If you plan to enroll at another institution and you are receiving financial aid, please contact the financial aid office at that other institution for information on aid eligibility. Students in University Housing :  If you live in the residence halls, please contact Housing as soon as possible at (541) 346-4277 to make arrangements and cancel your contract. What is Reinstatement? Reinstatement allows a student who has been academically disqualified to once again register for classes at the UO. Reinstatement is granted by the Scholastic Review Committee following review of a petition submitted to the committee by the student desiring to be reinstated. Students whose reinstatement petitions are approved will be assessed a $50.00 fee. To file a reinstatement petition with the Scholastic Review Committee, students must contact the Office of Academic Advising in person at 101 Oregon Hall or by phone at 541-346-3211. What is Re-enrollment? Re-enrollment occurs when a student returns to the UO following an absence of more than three terms, not counting summer session. Re-enrolling undergraduate students must submit an application for re-enrollment prior to the beginning of the term for which you intend to re-enroll. You may download the form from the Office of the Registrar or contact them by phone at 541-346-3243 to request a form by mail. Is it possible to request an exception to an academic requirement? If students find it necessary to ask for an exception to an academic requirement or procedure, two standing faculty committees meet regularly (approximately twice a month) to hear and act on such requests. The functions of the two committees differ in that the Scholastic Review Committee (SRC) considers petitions that are for previous terms and the Academic Requirements Committee (ARC) reviews petitions that are for current terms and for exceptions to graduation requirements. The Scholastic Review Committee reviews petitions for the following: Academic reinstatement Cancellation of disqualification Cancellation of academic probation Complete or selective withdrawal from courses after the 10th week of the term Change in grading option after the 10th week of the term (when not needed for graduation) Contested grade (request for change of grade when the instructor feels such a change is not warranted) To file a petition with the Scholastic Review Committee, students must contact the Office of Academic Advising in person at 101 Oregon Hall or by phone at 541-346-3211. An advisor will provide assistance in completing the petition. The SRC meets approximately every two weeks. Petitions to withdraw, change a grading option, or contest a grade are subject to a three-year time limit. Petitions must be filed within three years following the term in question. The Academic Requirements Committee reviews the following student petitions: Exceptions to graduation requirements including Group requirements Multicultural requirements Change in grading option when needed for graduation Exceptions to registration deadlines including Late registration Adding course(s) past the prescribed deadline (any term) Delete course(s) from academic history any term (drop with no W); individual courses only Register for more than 24 credits (any term) Selective withdrawal after deadline Change in grading option after deadline To file a petition with the Academic Requirements Committee, students must contact the Office of the Registrar , 2nd Floor Oregon Hall. The registrar may also be contacted by phone at 541-346-3243. A records specialist will provide assistance in completing the petition. Students may also contact an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising to discuss their petition. The ARC meets as needed. [ Return to Top ] OTHER PROGRAMS AND RESOURCES What resources are available for historically underrepresented students? What resources are available for international students? I’m the first person in my family to attend college. Is there a program for me? What is Student Support Services? How can the Financial Aid Office help me? What is First-Year Programs? What is a FIG? What pre-professional advising is available? What resources are available for historically underrepresented students? The Multicultural Center and student unions work to ensure that students of color have a successful and productive experience at the UO. A few of the many student unions are: Asian Pacific American Student Union, Black Student Union, Hui 'O Hawai'i (Hawai'i Club), Kultura Pilipinas, Movimiento Estudiantil for Change and Advocacy, Native American Student Union, and Womxn of Color Coalition. Programs provide mentorship and advocacy and assist students in developing programs designed to enhance and foster a campus environment, which recognizes, celebrates, and values its racial diversity and personal development. Please visit Equity and Inclusion at the UO to learn more about resources available for students of color at the UO. The Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence (CMAE) is dedicated to helping students of color successfully complete their University of Oregon education. CMAE offers a leadership team, special events, awards for students of color, support systems, workshops, tutoring, advising, and educational opportunities. To learn more, please visit the CMAE website or make an appointment with an advisor by calling 541-346-3479. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Education and Support Services (LGBTESS) and the LGBTQIA Student Organizations offer resources to LGBTQ+ students. LGBTESS is dedicated to providing space for all UO community members to explore their understanding of sexual/romantic orientation, gender, gender expression, and intersections of identities. Student organizations include Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans, Queer, Asexual, Aromantic, and Allied Alliance (LGBTQA3), Queer, Trans, and Intersex Students of Color (QTISOC), and more. What resources are available for international students? The Office of International Affairs and the International Students & Scholar Services (ISSS) Office can give you support, connect you with other international students, and provide information on international student orientation, immigration matters, AEIS classes, and other issues. They are located in 330 Oregon Hall, at 541-346-3206. International Affairs also gives US students information about study abroad, including internships abroad. There is also the Mills International Resource Center in the Erb Memorial Union on the mezzanine level. The Mills International Center can be contacted at 541-346-0887. I’m the first person in my family to attend college. Is there a program for me? Yes! The Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center provides learning support and special programs for first-generation college students. The Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center provides comprehensive free support for qualified students through the McNair Scholars and Student Support Services (SSS) programs. Contact TAEC at 541-346-3226 or stop by their main office in the Knight Library, Fourth Floor. What is Student Support Services? Student Support Services (SSS) are provided to individuals overcoming particularly challenging obstacles in the pursuit of an undergraduate degree. These challenges include students who are low income or whose parents did not earn a bachelor's degree. Through Student Support Services, McNair Scholars Program , and the Undergraduate Support Program qualifying students are helped. Students in these programs are provided special opportunities to develop the skills, knowledge, and self-confidence that allow them to make timely progress toward graduation and career goals. For more information about these programs contact the Teaching and Learning Center at 541-346-3226 or stop by their main office at 68 Prince Lucien Campbell Hall (PLC). How can the Office of Financial Aid help me? Contact the Office of Financial Aid to get information about: Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) federal aid programs scholarships deadlines parental contributions expenses private loans grants work-study satisfactory academic progress number of earned credits eligibility Other resources for scholarships, grants, and support programs include the Office of the Dean of Students , Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence , and the Office of International Affairs . What is First-Year Programs? First-Year Programs sponsors programs for students in their first year at the University of Oregon. There are FIGS (freshman interest groups), freshman seminars, and transfer seminars. These programs offer opportunities for small classes, mentoring to help navigate the university, and learning about the research interests and creative work of some of the university's most popular professors. Contact First-Year Programs at 541-346-1241 or in 372 Oregon Hall. What is a FIG? A FIG consists of 20 first-year students who take the same two thematically linked courses during the fall term. The FIG also meets in a faculty-led 1-credit college connections course that offers mentoring and further exploration of course material. For more information, contact First-Year Programs at 541-346-1241 or in 372 Oregon Hall. What pre-professional advising is available? There is specialized advising available for students with interests in the fields of law, education, and health. Visit p re-professional advising for more information. [ Return to Top ] GRADUATION For information on graduation, visit Commencement : How do I apply for graduation? How do I see how I am progressing toward graduation? When and where will I receive my diploma? What is the GPA needed to graduate with honors? Can I graduate in less than 4 years? Can I "walk" at graduation if I lack a few credits? How do I apply for graduation? Students who plan to receive a bachelor's degree should complete an on-line degree application, available on DuckWeb , by the second week of classes in the term of anticipated graduation. The deadline is listed on the academic dates and deadlines calendar . Advance notice of the intent to graduate permits timely review of degree requirements and notification of deficiencies in general education requirements, allowing you to plan or change your final term course schedule to ensure completion of all requirements. How do I see how I am progressing toward graduation? Students are encouraged to review their degree audits with an advisor on a regular basis. You can view your degree audit on DuckWeb with your academic advisor to help you prepare for each term so you can make sure you are progressing towards graduation. When and where will I receive my diploma? Diplomas are mailed approximately six weeks after your graduation date. For example, if you graduate in June (at the end of spring term), you can expect to receive your diploma around the end of July. Diplomas are produced by an off-campus commercial printer and mailed via first-class mail to the address designated as your permanent residence or to your diploma mailing address. You may update your permanent address and/or your diploma mailing address when you apply for your degree on DuckWeb . What is the GPA needed to graduate with honors? Graduating seniors who have earned at least 90 credits in residence at the University of Oregon and have successfully completed all other university degree requirements are eligible for university graduation with Latin honors. These distinctions are based on students' percentile rankings in their respective graduating classes, as follows: Top 2 percent – summa cum laude Top 5 percent – magna cum laude Top 10 percent – cum laude The Office of the Registrar computes Latin honors upon graduation. Some departments also bestow other types of honors. Can I graduate in less than four years? You may graduate any term when you have completed all of your degree requirements and notified the Office of the Registrar in a timely manner. Completion of degree requirements, not time, is the standard. Can I "walk" at graduation if I lack a few credits? According to the Office of the Registrar: “In February 2002, the university’s Undergraduate Council approved a motion stating that only students who will have met all degree requirements by the date of graduation are eligible to have their names listed in the commencement program and to be considered for departmental and university (i.e., Latin) honors. However, students who will not meet the requirements will not be excluded from attending the main university ceremony.” The Office of the Registrar will check student records for all bachelor’s degree applicants during the term of graduation. If all degree requirements are not completed (courses in progress during the anticipated term of registration are included in this evaluation) the Office of the Registrar will invalidate the degree application and remove the student's name from the official commencement program and consideration for university honors. Commencement ceremonies are held in spring and summer terms only. If you graduated fall or winter term, you are eligible to participate in the spring term commencement ceremony, provided you meet the criteria. In addition to the main, university-wide spring ceremony, individual ceremonies are held in individual schools, colleges, and majors. You will receive information from your major department about these ceremonies. Check the academic dates and deadlines calendar for when to apply for graduation. If you have questions, contact the Office of the Registrar , 2nd Floor Oregon Hall. [ Return to Top ] STUDENT SUCCESS & OTHER QUESTIONS How should I take notes and study? How do I balance school and a job? Can I attend another school while a registered student here on campus? What opportunities are available to study at other universities? Can I get credit for my bachelor's degree by taking a graduate course? If so, how? How should I take notes and study? There is a simple and accurate equation: time spent studying equals success. However, managing your time so that studying is your first priority is likely to be your most difficult challenge, especially as you work through the transition from high school, or your previous life before becoming a full-time student. Allocate two hours a week of studying for each hour spent in class. Studying does not mean simply doing the assigned homework. It means asking independent questions and searching for answers to your questions. It means visiting your professor during office hours. It means working with study partners as well as solitary hours of reading and writing in the library. If you need help with study skills or time management, the Teaching and Learning Center is a useful resource. How do I balance school and a job? Full-time students should expect to average thirty-five to fifty hours a week being a student – attending class and studying. Working no more than twenty hours a week is possible, and some studies suggest even beneficial, especially if the job is on-campus. To the extent possible, make your studies your first priority. You will need to manage your time effectively in order to balance studying and working. The Teaching and Learning Center offers skill-building classes in time management. Can I attend another school while a registered student here on campus? Yes, you can attend another school and still be a student at the University of Oregon. If you take courses elsewhere you are responsible for making sure that the courses transfer to the university and for providing an official transcript to the Office of the Registrar . Please talk to a record specialist in the registrar's office to discuss the transfer of credits from another college. What opportunities are available to study at other universities? Please contact Study Abroad Programs at 541-346-3207 or by visiting their office at 330 Oregon Hall. Can I get credit for my bachelor's degree by taking a graduate course? If so, how? Only seniors are eligible to take graduate-level courses as an undergraduate and they must request permission to do so. This is called reservation of graduate credit. The use of the graduate-level course must be decided in advance. Two options are available. Option One permits the inclusion of a graduate-level course in your bachelor's degree program. Option Two reserves a graduate-level course for consideration by a department after admission as a graduate student. Both options require approval by the head of the department and the instructor of the course. Three courses or 12 credits of graduate credit is the maximum that an undergraduate student may take. Furthermore, some graduate courses, such as Research (601) and Supervised College Teaching (602), are only open to graduate students. The reservation of graduate credit form can be obtained from the Graduate School in 125 Chapman Hall. [ Return to Top ] UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.