Academic Standing | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Academic Standing Students must maintain a cumulative GPA of 2.00 or better to remain in good academic standing and to graduate from the UO. However, many academic departments have a higher minimum GPA requirement. If you receive notification of academic warning, probation, or disqualification, immediately review the situation with your advisor . Good Standing If you have a cumulative UO GPA of 2.00 or better and your last term’s GPA was a 2.00 or better, you are in good academic standing. Some academic departments, however, have a higher minimum GPA requirement. Academic Warning If your term GPA is below 2.00 but your cumulative UO GPA is 2.00 or higher, you will be given an academic warning. This status is not recorded on your academic transcript. Academic Probation Academic probation is earned and the notation "academic probation" is recorded on the student's academic transcript whenever the following conditions exist: When the UO cumulative GPA is lower than 2.00. Students who have earned 44 or fewer credits are allowed two terms of probation before they are subject to disqualification. Students with more than 44 credits are only allowed one term of probation before they are subject to disqualification. Students on academic probation whose UO cumulative GPA is lower than 2.00 and whose UO term GPA is 2.00 or higher remain on academic probation. or When the student's three most recent UO term GPAs are lower than 2.00, even if the UO cumulative GPA is above a 2.00. Students on academic probation are limited to a study load of no more than 15 credits. Incoming students may be admitted on academic probation and are notified when such action has been taken; these students may be subject to disqualification after a single term of probation. Academic Disqualification Academic disqualification is earned and the notation "disqualification" is recorded on the student's academic transcript whenever the following conditions exist: Students on academic probation for having a UO cumulative GPA lower than 2.00 who earn a UO term GPA lower than 2.00 in their next term. or Students on academic probation for having their three most recent terms of UO term GPAs lower than 2.00 and who earn less than a 2.00 term GPA for the fourth consecutive term. Students may apply for reinstatement after disqualification by petition through the Scholastic Review Committee . Disqualified students may enroll for summer classes without being reinstated, although they are not eligible for financial aid. UO Academic Standing Flowchart Academic Support and Resources Connect with an Advisor UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.