Get Connected with PeerLink! | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Get Connected with PeerLink! PEERLINK PEER ADVISOR POSITIONS OPEN! The Office of Academic Advising is now accepting PeerLink Peer Advisor applications on Handshake. Application Deadline: Sunday, February 12th, 2023 Are you a self-motivated individual who takes initiative? Do you want to be a part of a collaborative team that empowers others to explore their interests and passions? The Office of Academic Advising is now accepting PeerLink Peer Advisor applications for students that interested in joining the team. The application and the information about the position can be found on Handshake . Applications are due Sunday, February 12th, 2023. You are invited to share this widely with emerging student leaders who may be interested! PeerLink Peer Advisors provide UO students with academic advising, mentoring, and support, including: Providing students accessible, consistent, same-day advising services (drop-ins; appointments) Serving as a comfortable and continuous point of contact Connecting students with campus resources and additional co-curricular opportunities Opportunity to explore their personal leadership identities, values, stories, and strengths Peer Advisors typically work 7-10+ hours a week, with opportunities for additional hours. Pay starts at $14.63, with room for growth. Though we’re hiring for the 2023-2024 school year, interviews will take place during winter term and start date in Spring 2023. More information can be found within the application on Handshake , and students are welcome to email ksantos@uoregon.edu for more information. connect with a peerlink peer advisor Make the most of your time at UO by getting connected with a PeerLink Advisor! PeerLink Advisors provide UO students with academic advising, mentoring, and support, including: Hosting drop in and appointment-based advising hours in the Office of Academic Advising Explaining general education requirements Connecting you with campus resources and academic support services Helping you identify additional academic or co-curricular opportunities Serving as a comfortable and continuous point of contact In the fall, UO’s PeerLink Advisors connect with first-year students to serve as friendly and knowledgeable connections to campus. PeerLink Advisors help navigate the transition to the first year and provide you with personal check-ins, academic advising, and information about resources and involvement opportunities at UO. You can get connected with PeerLink Advisors using the Advising Helpdesk (Teams). Connect with PeerLink Instagram! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.