Prep for Advising | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Prep for Advising Welcome new Ducks! Exploring majors are students who choose to explore their options before declaring. It's never too early to start. Below is information about what to expect in your first advising meeting and activities you can do ahead of time to get the most out of the experience. What to Do Before Your First Advising Meeting To make the most of your advising meeting, it is helpful for you to: Ask yourself the questions on this printable list Complete one or more of the exploring activities below Bring any questions you have about academics, classes, majors, and more Take a Self-Assessment Explore your strengths, career interests, and possible majors with the VitaNavis assessment. Explore Majors and Minors Search by interest area, specific majors, or by school or college. Ask your advisor about your favorites. Browse the UO Schedule of Classes Make note of any classes that grab your attention and your advisor can help connect you to related classes and majors. Add a First-Year Program First-Year Interest Groups (FIGs) and Academic Residential Communities (ARCs) can help you transition to college. What You Can Expect in Your First Advising Meeting During your meeting, your advisor will: Check in with you about any transfer credits (including AP/IB) that you have or are expecting to have, placement test scores, and any FIG or ARCs you are interested in (or have already added!) Ask you about your interests you want to explore further, classes that you might want to take, or possible majors and careers you are considering Brainstorm a list of class options for Fall term with you & send you a follow up email with the list of classes and a link for registration help Connect you with relevant resources or opportunities to further your exploration and support your academic success Answer your questions Explore Majors Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.