Advising | College of Arts and Sciences Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu College of Arts and Sciences Menu Admissions Admissions Overview Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Academics Academics Overview Academic Resources Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Research Research Overview Endowed Chairs and Professorships Sponsored Research Sponsored Research Overview Sponsored Research 2022-2023 Past Sponsored Research CAS Interdisciplinary Research Talks Affiliated Centers & Institutes Internal Research Support Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Overview Experiential Opportunities Research Opportunities Advising Advising Overview How to Access CAS Advising How to Access CAS Advising Overview Navigate Scheduling Instructions CAS Undergraduate Programs Meet the Advising Team Important Dates and Deadlines CAS Department Advising UO Academic Support and Resources Meet Recent Alumni Pre-Health Advising Pre-Health Advising Overview Resources Explore Pre-Health Advising Explore Menu Explore Overview Explore Pharmacy Bridge Program Explore Pre-Health Scholarships Explore Post-bacc at UO Plan Prepare Apply Connect FAQ Scholarships Scholarships Overview University-wide Scholarships CAS Scholarships & Fellowships Experiential Scholarship Department Scholarships, Awards, and Other Funding Resources Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Overview Faculty and Staff Resources Student Specific Resources Additional Resources and Events News About About Overview Leadership & Staff Leadership & Staff Overview Dean Chris Poulsen Academic Structure Academic Structure Overview Humanities Natural Sciences School of Global Studies and Languages Social Sciences Give to CAS Give to CAS Overview CAS Advisory Board Territorial Acknowledgment Events CAS Strategy CAS Strategy Overview Vision, Mission, and Values Strategic Priorities CAS Strategy Development CAS Strategy CAS Strategy Development Menu CAS Strategy Development Overview CAS Strategy Development Timeline Career Readiness Steering Committee Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give College of Arts and Sciences Main navigation Admissions Academics Research Experiential Learning Advising Scholarships Diversity & Inclusion News About Undergraduate Advising Subsection navigation How to Access CAS Advising CAS Undergraduate Programs Meet the Advising Team Important Dates and Deadlines CAS Department Advising UO Academic Support and Resources Meet Recent Alumni Pre-Health Advising Advising Tykeson College and Career Advising Schedule your appointment with an advisor in Navigate using your major! See scheduling instructions below. Scheduling Welcome to the College of Arts and Sciences! As the largest and most academically diverse college at UO, the College of Arts and Sciences (CAS) is an ideal place to explore. Cutting-edge researchers and exemplary instructors will help you navigate your intellectual journey through the liberal arts. You will grapple with some of society’s most pressing questions, gaining content knowledge, transferrable skills, and experiential experience along the way. Whether you are among the 60% of students who pursue a major in CAS, or if you find your way to us through core education classes (like writing or math) you will join a vibrant community of inquiry – faculty, staff, and students united in their effort to push the boundaries of knowledge about the world. In CAS, we are dedicated to ensuring that our graduates will leave UO in four years having found their purpose and prepared to affect positive change in the world. Student Success Begins with Great Advising! Get connected by visiting an advisor in Tykeson Hall to map out your journey. From class schedules to graduation planning, from career readiness to internships, CAS advisors are with you every step of the way. We provide a network of resources to support you throughout your journey at UO. Meet the Advising Team Get Ready to Explore CAS! Find your purpose, find your perfect major and declare a CAS major or minor today! Explore CAS Majors, Minors, and Programs Declare a CAS Major/Minor Explore Careers using VitaNavis Follow in the footsteps of an expert in your field with a faculty mentor! Connect with faculty who share your interests by visiting office hours. Find out what’s happening in your department by joining your major’s email distribution list or following the department on social media. Click on the “Research” tab on your major’s website to learn about exciting research projects. Tykeson Hall: Home of the College of Arts and Sciences This state-of-the art building in the heart of campus brings together the College of Arts and Sciences, the Division of Equity and Inclusion, and the University Career Center. Tykeson Hall is the ideal place for students to talk with an academic advisor or career coach, develop their skills in math and writing, and find a place to study. Fuel your work by stopping by Amy’s Corner for coffee and a pumpkin cookie. College and career advising professionals from Tykeson Advising (located on the 1st and 2nd floors) and the University Career Center (Garden level) are dedicated to supporting CAS students in their individual journeys to success both inside and outside the classroom. Read Recent Alumni Stories Academic and Community Resources We understand that your college journey happens in more places than just the classroom. Connect with additional resources, including tutoring, labs, libraries, academic centers, and more. Find your community on campus. Academic Resources Diversity and Inclusion Experiential Learning and Research Opportunities The College of Arts and Sciences encourages students to explore the many options available for fieldwork, internships, and creative learning-by-doing opportunities. Experiential Learning Opportunities Research Opportunities Ready to arrive at UO? Whether you're applying as an undergraduate, a graduate student, or just looking to visit, find out how. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Visit UO College of Arts and Sciences Events Coming to Oregon Graduate Student Group Aug 19 Coming to Oregon Graduate Student Group Aug 19 Coming to Oregon Graduate Student Group - evening session Aug 19 Coming to Oregon Graduate Student Group - evening session Aug 19 UO Cinema Studies Alumni Gathering: Los Angeles Aug 25 UO Cinema Studies Alumni Gathering: Los Angeles Aug 25 Everson Royce Bar Graduate Employee Day of Teaching Sep 25 Graduate Employee Day of Teaching Sep 25 Willamette Hall 13th Annual SPICE Science Open House 2024 Oct 9 13th Annual SPICE Science Open House 2024 Oct 9 Willamette Hall How to: Resume and Cover Letter tips (Workshop) Oct 14 How to: Resume and Cover Letter tips (Workshop) Oct 14 Willie and Donald Tykeson Hall The BIG 10+ Academia Career Fair Oct 16 The BIG 10+ Academia Career Fair Oct 16 Resume Extravaganza! (Drop-In Resume Reviews with Career Coaches & Peer Coaches) Oct 16 Resume Extravaganza! (Drop-In Resume Reviews with Career Coaches & Peer Coaches) Oct 16 Willie and Donald Tykeson Hall Fall Career & Internship Expo Oct 24 Fall Career & Internship Expo Oct 24 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) Graduate School Fair 2024 Nov 13 Graduate School Fair 2024 Nov 13 Erb Memorial Union (EMU) College of Arts and Sciences The College of Arts and Sciences is the “heart and soul” of the University of Oregon because we are home to the core academic programs that support the entire university. Admissions Academics Research Experiential Learning Advising Scholarships Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Directory About CAS Connection Join our community of generous and loyal supporters by making a gift to one of the areas below, or choose from our full list of department and program funds to support your favorite. CAS Dean's Excellence Fund CAS Scholarship Fund CAS Graduate Support Fund College of Arts and Sciences Dean's Office 1030 East 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403-1245 Office: Tykeson Hall , Fourth Floor P: 541-346-3902 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.