Student Success Resources | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Student Success Resources Academic and Career Advising Resources Tutoring and Learning Resources Wellness and Engagement Resources ACADEMIC AND CAREER ADVISING RESOURCES Office of Academic Advising Location: 1st Floor, Oregon Hall Phone: 541-346-3211 Academic advising and support for students who are exploring majors, need to pursue a retroactive petition process or need support around their academic standing. Schedule by calling the front desk or sending the front desk a Teams message via chat here. Tykeson College & Career Advising Location: 1st & 2nd Floor, Tykeson and Unthank Hall Phone: 541-346-9200 Front Desk Chat Academic and career advising for majors within the College of Arts & Sciences. Check out majors within the College of Arts and Sciences here . Schedule an appointment with an advisor or connect via drop-in here Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence Location: 1st Floor, Oregon Hall Phone: 541-346-3479 Email: cmae@uoregon.edu Schedule Appointment or Chat Support and programs for underrepresented and historically undeserved students Peer tutoring, cultural connection time, multicultural advising, library loan, a study space in Oregon hall, connections to student groups and more. More information about CMAE and its services. Student Support Services, a TRIO program Location: 1st Floor, Oregon Hall Phone: 541-346-3211 Email: triosss@uoregon.edu Support and Services for first-generation students, students who meet socioeconomic criteria, or have a documented disability. Services for eligible students include advising, tutoring, financial support, counseling, and community connections. Application and eligibility criteria available here . PathwayOregon Location: 1st Floor, Oregon Hall Phone: 541-346-3211 Find Advisors, Email and Chat If you are a PathwayOregon recipient, you have a team of advisors to support your success. Help is available for navigating campus, discovering resources, understanding academic requirements, graduation planning, and answering financial aid and student billing questions. You can schedule an appointment with a PathwayOregon advisor here . UO Career Center Location: Garden Level, Tykeson Hall (Room 050) Phone: 541-346-3235 Email: career@uoregon.edu Career readiness and exploration support Meet with career readiness coaches to discuss career paths, help finding a job on or off campus, earn credit for internships, find networking opportunities and discuss next steps after graduation. Set up your Handshake account and schedule an appointment here . International Student & Scholar Services Location: 3rd Floor, Oregon Hall (300W) Phone: 541-346-3206 Email: intl@uoregon.edu Support and resources for International Students ISSS advisors can answer visa compliance questions, help international students connect with English language partners or student groups, and discuss other opportunities and scholarships Start a chat, email, or connect with us on social media here . Tutoring and Learning Resources Tutoring & Academic Engagement Center Location: 4th Floor, Knight Library Phone: 541-346-3226 Find Advisors, Email and Chat Tutoring and study skills support Drop-in tutoring hours for math, science, writing and language on the 4th Floor of the Knight Library , and in The Academic Success Hub , LLC North 123. Study strategies support: schedule with a learning specialist or a peer academic coach, find study skills resources and tips (including workshops) here . Connect with small group or class encore tutoring here . Check out the learning strategy courses they offer here . Accessible Education Center Location: 3rd Floor, Oregon Hall (Suite 360) Phone: 541-346-1155 Email: uoaec@uoregon.edu The AEC provides access and inclusion support for students with disabilities. Help establishing course accomodations such as exam adjustments, notetaking, sign language interpretation and adaptive technology. They can provide academic planning and other accessibility support and advocacy. Read more about AEC services here . Make an appointment using the request form here . Fenton Hall Math Library Location: 218 Fenton Hall Connect with math drop-in homework help for 100/200 level math courses in-person or via Zoom here . Braddock Tutoring Center Location: 240 Lillis Business Complex Free in-person or virtual drop-in hours for Pre-Business and Business majors. For Economics, Math, Accounting, and other business-related courses. Find the schedule and connect with tutors here . Super Chem and Science Tutorial Rooms Location: Allan Price Science Commons Tutorial rooms for CIS, Geology, Biology, Physics, and Anatomy & Physiology. Find the schedule here . Wellness and Engagement Resources Counseling Services Location: 2nd Floor, University Health Services Phone: 541-346-3227 Get started with individual or group therapy options, or work with a case manager to find a therapist near you. Take a wellness assessment , check out our wellness apps, attend a workshop , find self-care toolkits and other resources for coping. Find all the University Counseling Center's services here . The UCS phone number connects to a crisis line after-hours. You can find other emergency resources here . Duck Nest Location: Ground Floor, Erb Memorial Union, Room 41 Phone: 541-346-2770 Self-care, stress reduction, nutrition, and overall wellness resources. Attend virtual workshops, connect with peer wellness advocates, explore tips/strategies for finding a balance and prioritizing wellness, help enrolling in SNAP benefits. Find our wellness resources and upcoming events here . University Housing Location: Office, Justice Bean Hall Complex West Phone: 541-346-4277 Email: housing@uoregon.edu Holistic support for students who live in University Housing: assistance resolving conflict, getting connected to peers and faculty, formal and informal advising, counseling, mentors, and assistance related to living and learning on campus. More information and contacts here . Schedule an appointment with your Community Director (CD) in your residence hall and connect with the Resident Assistant (RA) for your community. Office of Financial Aid & Scholarships Location: 2nd Floor, Oregon Hall (287) Phone: 541-346-3221 Support for students who receive financial aid or scholarships, as well as financial education resources. Connect with financial aid counselors via phone, in-person, or remote drop-in hours here. Attend a workshop or connect with a financial coach in the UO Financial Wellness Center here . Office of the Registrar Location: 2nd Floor, Oregon Hall, Room 234 Phone: 541-346-2935 The Office of the Registrar is responsible for a variety of services including, but not limited to: student registration, enrollment verification, grading and academic records maintenance, transfer credit articulation, degree audits, monitoring undergraduate general education requirements, degree awarding, course evaluations, veterans benefits, and transcript services. Contact the Office of the Registrar if you need help with any of these services here. Basic Needs Resources Location: 185 Oregon Hall Phone: 541-346-3216 Resources for students facing challenges with access to adequate food, stable housing, affordable childcare, or with meeting other with basic needs. Find resources or fill out the assistance form to connect with the Basic Needs Team here . Resources for UO Dreamers Phone: 541-346-1123 Resources and support for Dreamer and undocumented students. Find resources online or schedule an appointment to discuss legal support, scholarships or emergency funding, and other resources, more information here. Student Groups, Clubs, and Organizations Location: Erb Memorial Union The Associated Students of the University of Oregon (ASUO) sponsors more than 300 student groups you can join! Check out the online database here . Get involved in other ways, visit this page . Explore Majors Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.