College Block | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff College Block Week of Welcome 2023 Monday, September 25, 9:00 a.m. – Noon Gerlinger Hall, Woodruff Gym, Room 220 ________ College Block Make the most of your academic experience Join us during the Week of Welcome 2023 to kickstart your academic and career journeys! During this event you’ll learn more about all of the interesting majors, minors, career paths, and other academic opportunities UO has to offer. View all programs in attendance & table assignments here Not sure how to get to Gerlinger Hall? Check out our campus map link. How to College Block Step 1 Learn more about majors, minors, and programs Check out the many majors and programs represented at College Block  on Monday, September 25. You can also check out information about these programs virtually before or after the event. Step 2 Connect with academic resources and opportunities Learn more about resources and opportunities like Study Abroad , Undergraduate Research , the Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center , and UO Common Reading . Step 3 Find an advisor Check in with our information stations to learn how to get connected with an advisor! Find more info about advising at UO here . Dive Deep Academic success goes beyond just the books. Whether to hone your skills or make connections with others, what do you want to know more about? Wellness and Self-Care Academic Support Academics and Careers Undergraduate Research Exploring Majors Global Experiences Events & Experiences Exploring Your Global Engagement Opportunities: How to Map the Next Four Years Learn about the steps you can take right now to make education abroad a part of your college career with Global Education Oregon (GEO), the campus study abroad office. Discover more about remote global engagement experiences available this term, including no-credit global experiences specially designed for first-year students, #NoPassportNeeded Elements (virtual homestays and language partners), #NoVisaNeeded programs, and virtual internships. Wellness and You: Self-Care and Managing Stress in Your First Term The transition to college can be both exciting and stressful. Learn more about wellness, self-care, and managing stress. Staff from University Counseling Services will share tips and answer your questions! Supporting Your Academic Success: Resources to Hone Your Academic Skills Whether it's tutoring, speed reading classes, or remote support, UO has resources for you. Learn about the array of academic support services available to you from day one. Get your questions answered and learn about the variety of academic services at the Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center and across campus. Advising and You: Getting Started on Your Academic and Career Journey at the UO Learn how when to connect to your advisors for academic and career support. Advisors and career coaches can help you navigate resources, find opportunities to get involved, and help you plan for the future. In this session, learn more about advising and career resources, how to connect with advisors and coaches, and have a chance to ask advising questions. How to Get Involved in Undergraduate Research and Creative Work Looking to get involved in an active learning experience outside of the classroom? UO's research pros will discuss the different ways you can get plugged into research on campus. See examples of other students' research projects, learn how to build connections with research faculty, and funding resources! Exploring 101 Discovering your major isn't usually something that happens on its own. In this Q&A, academic advisors will share concrete steps you can take to continue your major exploration process. They'll share strategies and resources for exploring, as well as opportunities to explore your interests beyond the classroom. Make Connections Find Your Advisor Accessible Education Center UO Career Center Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center UO Counseling Center CURE – Center for Undergraduate Research & Engagement UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.