Transfer Advising and Support | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Transfer Advising and Support Transfer Advising and Support Find an Advisor » | Schedule Appointment » | Student Helpdesk » Welcome Transfer Ducks! Curious about your next steps as a transfer student at the UO? You’ve come to the right place. At UO, we are committed to supporting you in your academic and career goals. We have resources available to help you adjust and flourish on our campus in this next chapter of your higher education journey. Campus Life Community Transfer Club Academic Advising Prospective and incoming transfer student can meet with an advisor at the UO. Advisors can help with questions ranging from major/minor requirements to ways to be an academically successful Transfer Duck. Connect with an Advisor Transfer Transition To help with your transition to UO, you can connect with Scott Broussard, our Transfer Transition Coordinator. Scott is able to offer you guidance, answer advising-related or other questions, and help connect you to the UO transfer student communities. Schedule an Appointment Scott also provides virtual drop-in office hours. To join a meeting, please click this Zoom link. Drop-In Schedule: Wednesdays and Fridays 10 a.m. – 12 p.m. PST Weeks 6-10, during Fall, Winter, and Spring terms. Orientation Programs Wondering what steps to take before your first term at UO starts? Our Student Orientation Programs have all the information you need. Orientation Transfer Admissions For admissions related questions, including deadlines, admission requirements, transfer course equivalencies, or connecting with an admissions counselor, you can connect with the UO Admissions Office. Transfer Admissions UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.