Navigate Student | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Navigate Student Navigate for UO Students Download the App » | Desktop Version » | Connect with an Advisor » New students must complete all admissions requirements, claim Duck ID and have a UO email address assigned before accessing Navigate. How to Schedule an Appointment in Navigate Open Navigate Student app (or in your browser) and log in with your Duck ID. New students! You must claim your Duck ID and then have a UO email address assigned before you can successfully sign in to Navigate. Go to Appointments > Schedule Appointment Not sure who to schedule with or having issues scheduling? Most departments offer drop-in advising! Visit their websites for more details . Questions? Chat with the Advising Helpdesk on Teams (requires Duck ID) or call 541-346-3211, Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm. In Navigate you can... Schedule Appointments View your Class Schedule View your UO Holds (if you have any) Connect with your Classmates using Study Buddies View Important To-Dos and Events Explore UO Resources ... and more! Download the App » | Desktop Version » | Connect with an Advisor » Navigate Student UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.