Navigate Access | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Navigate Access Log in to Navigate Log in to Navigate Test Navigate at the UO Navigate is the advising and scheduling platform for the University of Oregon and is managed by Undergraduate Education and Student Success (UESS) . It is the leading student success platform for higher education and it helps connect professional and faculty advisors, student services, and students. Campus advising units, faculty and departmental advisors, and many other campus partners use Navigate for at-a-glance student academic information, advising notes, appointment scheduling, appointment campaigns and outreach to assigned students or other populations (such as academic warning and probation, new admits, etc.). Navigate uses predictive analytics to predict the statistical risk of student success. Navigate is part of the UO Student Success initiatives designed to increase retention and graduation rates. Navigate for Students Students love the Navigate app! In Navigate Student, also available on desktop, students can schedule appointments, view their class schedule, sync their calendar, view their UO holds, receive notifications of important to-dos and events, connect with other students in their classes through Study Buddies, and find campus resources. Navigate requires a Duck ID login. New students must claim their Duck ID and receive a UO email address, and will then be added to Navigate the following day. Click here for more information about Navigate Student. Navigate Staff Access FERPA Training All users must complete FERPA 101 – Introduction to FERPA at the UO . This training is provided by the UO Office of the Registrar and is now available on UO MyTrack with Duck ID login. https://uomytrack.pageuppeople.com/learning/3413 Navigate Access Form Please fill out the appropriate Navigate Access Form below and email it to navigate@uoregon.edu . Navigate Faculty, Staff, GE Access Form Navigate Student Employee Access Form Navigate Basic Training in UO MyTrack Once the new user completes FERPA training and submits the Navigate access form, they will receive an email Navigate access and training information. All basic Navigate training for new users is available on UO MyTrack. New users can complete the MyTrack training once Navigate access is granted. Faculty, Staff and GE Basic Training Peer Advisor Training Student Employee Basic Training Navigate access can take up to one week to process. If you have a more urgent need, please let us know at navigate@uoregon.edu . Navigate Support Undergraduate Education and Student Success Please reach out with questions, to explore Navigate options for your role and department, and to consult on best practices navigate@uoregon.edu UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.