Registration Decisions | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Registration Decisions Current Term Registration Questions Contents: Registration Dropping Courses Complete Withdrawal Grade Option Change Missed Deadline For questions about a previous term, visit " Previous Term Registration Questions " REGISTRATION When can I see classes for the next term? Class schedules are posted on Friday of week 5 (for example the winter class schedule is posted week 5 of fall term). Class schedules for summer sessions are posted in early March. BONUS TIP! Once the class schedule posts, you may use schedule builder in DuckWeb to begin arranging possible schedules. When can I register? Registration is based on credit hours earned and begins Monday of week 8 (for example winter registration begins week 8 of fall term). Summer registration begins in early May. Registration priority information is posted in DuckWeb under "registration" menu, "check registration eligibility" during Week 7. It can also be found at the Office of the Registrar . What classes should I register for? Review your degree audit on DuckWeb and make note of areas in red that say “NO.” These are courses you will need to incorporate into your schedule planning. Things to consider include how many credits to take. 12 credits is full-time; however, aim to earn 45 credits per year to graduate in four years. Balance your course load to account for your academic strengths and challenges and other time commitments. Who can help me with my schedule? Your Advisor ! Speak with an advisor early about schedule planning. Weeks 3-5 are the best time to work with an advisor to discuss future schedule plans. Don’t wait until week 6 or later when advising schedules begin to fill up! Can I add classes after the deadline? Petitions to register/add classes after the deadline can be obtained through the Office of the Registrar (234 Oregon Hall) on their website here . Can I register for more than 21 credits? Students considering more than 21 credits in a term MUST speak with an advisor . Advisors may give permission for up to 24 credits. Students seeking more than 24 credits (NOT RECOMMENDED) must obtain a petition in the Office of the Registrar (234 Oregon Hall). [ Return to Top ] DROPPING COURSES Should I drop a course or courses? Students are ALWAYS encouraged to speak with an advisor before dropping courses. Advisors can discuss other possible options and also make important referrals. When can I drop (withdraw from) a course? Students have until Sunday before week 8 to drop courses via DuckWeb , HOWEVER, there are deadlines throughout the term that will dictate how much tuition is owed. Drop deadlines can be viewed by clicking on the CRN for the course in the Class Schedule or by viewing the registrar’s academic dates and deadlines calendar . NOTE! Summer Sessions have different deadlines due to shorter terms. Be sure to click on course CRNS to view individual course deadlines. How do I drop all my courses (complete withdrawal)? Students who drop all their courses must use DuckWeb and go to "completely withdraw" in the registration menu. Students have until Sunday before finals week to completely withdraw, HOWEVER, there are deadlines throughout the term that will dictate how much tuition is owed on complete withdrawal. Those deadlines can be viewed by clicking on the CRNs for the courses in the class schedule or by viewing the registrar’s academic dates and deadlines calendar . NOTE! Summer Sessions have different deadlines due to shorter terms. Be sure to click on course CRNS to view individual course deadlines. [ Return to Top ] COMPLETE WITHDRAWAL How do I completely withdraw from the term? There are many reasons why a student may need to withdraw from a current term at the University of Oregon. Students who drop all their courses must use DuckWeb and go to the Registration Menu, then to the "Completely Withdraw from the Term(s)" link. Students have until Sunday before finals week to completely withdraw, HOWEVER there are deadlines throughout the term that will dictate how much tuition is owed on complete withdrawal . Those deadlines can be viewed by clicking on the CRNs for the courses in the class schedule or by viewing the registrar’s academic dates and deadlines calendar. NOTE! Summer Sessions have different deadlines due to shorter terms. Be sure to click on course CRNS to view individual course deadlines. [ Return to Top ] CHANGE GRADE OPTION What is a change in grading option? Many courses offer the option to change your grading from a letter grade to Pass/No Pass via DuckWeb. It is very important to talk to an advisor before making a decision to change grading option . Most courses for your major are NOT permitted to be taken P/NP but you must confirm that with an advisor. When can I change my grading option? Students have until Sunday before week 8 to change grading option via DuckWeb . Deadlines can always be viewed by clicking on the CRN for the course in the class schedule or by viewing the registrar’s academic dates and deadlines calendar . NOTE! Summer Sessions have different deadlines due to shorter terms. Be sure to click on course CRNS to view individual course deadlines. [ Return to Top ] I MISSED THE DROP/GRADE OPTION DEADLINE What can I do if I missed the drop (withdrawal)/grade option deadline? If the term is still in progress (before finals week) you may obtain a petition for late drop (withdrawal) or late change in grading option in the Office of the Registrar (234 Oregon Hall) on their website here . THIS IS AN EXCEPTION TO UNIVERSITY POLICY AND MAY NOT BE APPROVED. [ Return to Top ] UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.