Exploring Majors | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Exploring Majors Exploring Majors Trying to figure out which major you’d like to pursue at UO? You’re not alone!  Approximately 25% of students enter the University as Exploring—it is the largest major designation at UO. Our advisors are available to help you turn your interests, values, strengths, and goals into a specific strategy to explore all your options. We want to help you make the most out of your UO experience! Find an Advisor » | Schedule Appointment » | Student Helpdesk » The Office of Academic Advising offers drop-in advisement for Exploring Majors during weeks 1, 8 & 9 in Oregon Hall, Suite 101 > Peer Advisors are available for drop-in from 9:30am-4:30pm during those weeks > Professional staff are available for drop-in from 1-4pm during those weeks Exploring Roadmap Whether you're in year one, two, three and beyond, or you're a transfer student, you'll find the right path to take with our Exploring Roadmap. You'll find a checklist of milestones to accomplish along the way, alongside suggested exploration activities. Access the Roadmap Explore by Major Discover the opportunities that await. The UO Admissions page includes details about the different majors you can explore while studying at our campuses. Explore Now Connect with an Advisor Exploring Advisors can help: Provide guidance, information, and support for students who are Exploring majors. Help students engage with the exploration process early on in their college career Help students to find and declare a major, as well as complete their degree requirements in a timely way. Prepare for advising Connect with an advisor Declare or Change Your Major Students are encouraged to declare a major by the winter term of their sophomore year. Find out how to declare or change your major here. Learn More Quick Links DuckWeb Navigate Ducks on Track GPA Calculator UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.