Student Petitions | UO Academic Advising Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Academic Advising Menu Find an Advisor Explore Majors Explore Majors Overview Connect with Exploring Advisor Exploring Roadmap Prep for Advising Questions to Ask Yourself Search UO Majors Self-Assessment via VitaNavis Appointments via Navigate Declare or Change Major Student Success Resources Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Academic Advising Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation Find an Advisor Explore Majors Stay on Track New Students Support & Resources Dates & Deadlines Faculty & Staff Student Petitions While students are responsible for understanding and adhering to academic policies and deadlines , we know that students may encounter extraordinary circumstances that prevent them from being able to do so. The Scholastic Review Committee (SRC) reviews petitions from students who would like to petition to do one or more of the following: Petition to withdraw from one or more courses in a previous term Petition to change the grading option for a class in a previous term (graded to pass/no pass OR back to graded) Petition to return to the UO after being academically disqualified Please note that petitions are not automatically granted and this process is intended to redress extenuating circumstances that typically fit the following criteria: Extraordinary Beyond a student's control Documented In some cases, that significant progress has been made to address the issue SRC Petitions I want to withdraw from one or more courses in a previous term Complete or Selective Withdrawal Petition I want to change a course in a previous term from graded to pass/no pass (or back to graded) Grade Option Change Petition I was asked to take a break from UO ( academically disqualified ) in the past and now want to return Reinstatement Petition Don't see the petition you're looking for? If you would like to petition for a class in the current term or seek a tuition refund after withdrawing from courses , please complete a petition with the Office of the Registrar : Petition to add a course (s) past the deadline Petition to change grading option past the deadline within the current term (weeks 8-10) Petition for a refund for course(s) (past or current term after withdrawing) Petition to withdraw from one or more courses (not all courses) past the deadline within the current term (weeks 8-10) Please note that the petitions above must be completed and submitted to the Registrar by Sunday of Week 10 in order to be reviewed in the term (except for the tuition refund petition, which should be submitted within one year). Any incomplete petitions or petitions received by the Registrar after this deadline will be referred to the Office of Academic Advising for a retroactive petition process, which may require some additional steps. Upcoming Scholastic Review Committee (SRC) Deadlines All petitions must be completed and submitted by 12pm (noon) on the day of the deadline. Due to the volume of petitions received by the committee, some petitions submitted by a deadline may need to be reviewed at a subsequent committee meeting. Petition Deadline Committee Meeting Date June 20 Cancel Disqualification Petitions only; Spring 2024 June 21 End of Term Review; Cancel Disqualification Petitions Only; Spring 2024 June 27 Cancel Disqualification Petitions only; Spring 2024 June 28 Cancel of Disqualification Petitions only; Spring 2024 July 3 July 10 July 31 August 7 August 28 Final Deadline for Fall 2024 Reinstatement and Regular Petitions September 4 Last Meeting for Fall 2024 Reinstatement and Regular Petitions September 18 Cancel Disqualification Petitions Only: Summer 2024 September 19 End of Term Review Cancel Disqualification Petitions Only: Summer 2024 September 25 Cancel Disqualification Petitions Only: Summer 2024 only September 26 Cancel Disqualification Petitions Only: Summer 2024 All petitions must be completed and submitted by 12pm (noon) on the day of the deadline.  Given the high volume of petitions, the SRC may need to defer some petitions to the next meeting date even if they are submitted by the deadline. Complete or Selective Retroactive Withdrawal Petition Please make an appointment with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising . This is required because the advisor will assist you in navigating the petition process and paperwork, and will connect you to any other information and resources that may be helpful. This petition is reviewed by the Scholastic Review Committee , a group of faculty and staff across campus. Students do not attend the committee meetings. All petition information reviewed by the committee is confidential and privacy is protected by federal law. Purpose of this petition Petition Components How to get started The student experienced an unexpected extenuating circumstance that impacted success in a course or courses from a previous term. The circumstances also prevented the student from withdrawing by posted academic deadlines. Student Statement Statement from Instructors Supporting Documentation (e.g medical documentation) To complete a complete or selective retroactive withdrawal petition, you must first meet with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising Make an Appointment Grade Option Change Petition Please make an appointment with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising . This is required because the advisor will assist you in navigating the petition process and paperwork, and will connect you to any other information and resources that may be helpful. Please note: Students seeking to petition for a major or minor requirement should consult with a major advisor first; before scheduling with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising. This petition is reviewed by the Scholastic Review Committee , a group of faculty and staff across campus. Students do not attend the committee meetings. All petition information reviewed by the committee is confidential and privacy is protected by federal law. Purpose of this Petition Petition Components How to get started Student had an unexpected extenuating circumstance that impacted a decision to change the grade option in a course by the posted academic deadlines. Student Statement Statement from Instructors Supporting Documentation (e.g medical documentation) To complete retroactive grade option change petition, you must first meet with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising Make an Appointment Reinstatement Petition Please make an appointment with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising . This is required because the advisor will assist you in navigating the petition process and paperwork, and will connect you to any other information and resources that may be helpful. This petition is reviewed by the Scholastic Review Committee , a group of faculty and staff across campus. Students do not attend the committee meetings. All petition information reviewed by the committee is confidential and privacy is protected by federal law. Purpose of this Petition Petition Components How to get started Student was previously academically disqualified from the UO, has spent some time away and often completed academic work elsewhere, and student would now like to return to the UO. Student will discuss what impacted their success in the past and what has changed since that time that will allow them to be academically successful moving forward. Student Statement Transcripts for any classes completed at other schools since disqualification from the University of Oregon Provisional Grades for current courses being taken at another college/university Three-Term Academic Plan Supporting Documentation Residency and Re-Enrollment Information To complete a reinstatement petition, you must first meet with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising Make an Appointment Tuition Refund Petition Students pursuing a tuition refund petition after withdrawing from some or all of their courses for a term (selective or complete withdrawal) can now access the petition online through the Office of the Registrar (refund petitions are no longer issued in the Office of Academic Advising). The refund petition can be found here . If students need help or have questions about navigating this process, they can meet with an advisor in the Office of Academic Advising. Make an Appointment UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives CAMPUS RESOURCES Navigate | DuckWeb Canvas | UO Email News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar If any download is not accessible to you in the appropriate format, please contact the Office of Academic Advising. Office of Academic Advising Oregon Hall Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success 5217 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5217 P: 541-346-3211 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.