Hybrid Services | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Hybrid Services Hybrid Mental Health Services Teletherapy Services Counseling Services provides teletherapy in addition to in-person clinical appointments. Teletherapy is only available to students who are physically located in the state of Oregon at the time of the appointment. Call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227 during our hours of operation and inform the front desk staff member that you prefer a teletherapy appointment After your appointment is scheduled, you will be sent a link to the forms you need to complete before your appointment. You will be sent a link to connect with a therapist via Zoom after your forms have been completed. Teletherapy FAQs Getting Started All students are able to access in-the-moment support regardless of location. Call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227. If we're open, our front desk will connect you with a mental health professional; if we're closed press "1" to be connected to our After-hours Support and Crisis Line. Also, check out our Let’s (Tele)Talk drop-in service that provides easy access to free, confidential, one-on-one consultations with a Counseling Services staff member. Counseling Services Clinical Consults In-person and teletherapy clinical consults typically run 30–45 minutes in length. We have a limited number of clinical consult appointments available each day, so students are encouraged to contact us early on a day that works well for them. Due to high demand for services, appointments fill up quickly. We are typically able to get students scheduled for clinical consults within a few days to a week, if a same-day appointment is not available. Students will be emailed a link to electronic forms to complete prior to their appointment. Depending on whether a student has accessed our services during this academic year, electronic forms could take between 10–30 minutes to complete. Students should plan accordingly to ensure they have sufficient time to complete the required forms. Failure to complete these forms before their appointment may lead to their appointment being canceled and offered to another student. Consultation with a Counseling Services Case Manager Because we are not licensed to provide telemental health services in all states, you may need to find mental health support where you currently reside. Our case managers can talk with you about how to find that support. Call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227 and ask to schedule a phone consultation with one of our case managers . Let’s Talk Drop-In Service Let’s Talk has added a virtual component. Campus locations are also available for in-person visits. As a drop-in service, there is no need to schedule an appointment and no paperwork to be completed. Students are seen on a first-come, first-served basis during designated days/times throughout the week. Let’s Talk Schedule After-Hours Support and Crisis Line Our support and crisis line is open to all students regardless of location. Call 541-346-3227 to talk to a mental health professional when Counseling Services is closed. Other Counseling Services Mental Health Resources If you have any questions about your options for mental health support, call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227. We will have the next available counselor return your call to discuss your options and to answer your questions. We frequently add new content including self-help resources, links to digital mental health resources, and our own webinar format programs on topics relevant to student mental health to our website. Please visit check back regularly to see what’s new. Self-Help Resources Crisis Support UO Student Self-Care Kit Counseling Services Outreach and Workshops Mental Health Resources Be Well Blog Discussion Spaces and Therapy Groups Well-being Tools Duck Tails Podcast Duck Nest Wellness Center Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.