Unhealthy Relationships | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Unhealthy Relationships What is it? Many people want healthy relationships in their lives, but defining a healthy relationship can be difficult because healthy relationships can look differently. Relationships are informed by one’s cultural identity, relationship history, and a range of factors, so they can vary in terms of closeness, purpose, and meaning. Signs of an unhealthy relationship may include a partner feeling persistently jealous, pressuring the other to be sexual, or one partner controlling or manipulating another. What can help? Direct and respectful communication is the most effective way to communicate with your partner. This is often easier said than done, but it can help minimize conflict by having both partners express their needs, wants, hopes, and desires. It is important that you and your partner openly listen to each other and understand what the other is saying. This can help build trust and respect in your relationship, get your needs met, and prevent emotions from escalating. Resources We offer a variety of services where students can explore cultivating healthy relationships. Browse our services here . One popular group therapy option is called Creating Healthy Relationships for students who are interested in learning about their relationship with themselves and with others in their lives. Learn more here. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.