Procrastination | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Procrastination What is it? Lacking motivation or avoiding tasks can come from a variety of sources. Sometimes it means that we are simply overextended and cannot get to everything. Or we don’t find it interesting and don’t have the motivation to do it. But there can be other sources for procrastination. Faulty assumptions Sometimes we can over-estimate the difficulty of the task or the amount of time it will take to get done. This can make it seem more intimidating than it is. It can be helpful to break it down into steps and focus on completing one step at a time. Perfectionism Many of us want to do our absolute best in everything. However, this is not always possible and trying to achieve perfection can leave us overextended. Instead of aiming for perfect, decide what level of performance you want to achieve on each task and work toward those goals. Fear of evaluation Concerns about responses to our work can increase stress and anxiety. It is important to keep other people’s responses in perspective. No one performs highly all the time and in every area. Focus on doing your best with your workload and don’t let other people’s reactions impact you more than they should. What can help? In order to address procrastination, there are several strategies you might try. Creating a work space for yourself that minimizes distractions can give you a place to focus and complete your work. You can also try scheduling specific blocks of time to only focus on completing work to keep yourself accountable. It may also be helpful to break tasks down into smaller steps so you can focus on completing one goal at a time. Resources Learn more about our services, including individual therapy, consultation, and Let's Talk here . We also offer a variety of group sessions and workshops to help people who want to learn more about coping strategies and managing time and procrastination. You can find more information here . Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.