Events and Workshops | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Supporting Our Campus We offer presentations and workshops to support our campus on a variety of topics and issues. Our outreach efforts work to increase student access and awareness of the services we provide, build resilience, and reduce stigma around mental illness. Being involved and present in our community is a vital part of serving our campus. Outreach and Presentation Request Outreach Request We are dedicated to our campus community. Working together, we are able to more effectively provide resources and services to our community and build relationships to support one another. We often collaborate on presentations and workshops with student organizations and our campus partners. If you would like to collaborate with us, please let us know. Submit a Request Partnering to Provide Support We work with faculty, staff, and student organizations to facilitate presentations and workshops on a variety of topics. These can be beneficial for individual knowledge, but also for helping groups to support each other more effectively and understand new perspectives. If you would like a presentation or workshop on a specific topic, let us know and we will work with you to tailor it toward your interests and needs. Presentations and Workshops Prevention Efforts Our prevention work is broad based and incorporates trainings, collaborative programming, and outreach. Interactive Screening Program (ISP) The Interactive Screening Program (ISP) provides an anonymous, web-based method of outreach that starts with a brief, confidential online Stress and Depression Questionnaire that students are invited to complete. A Counseling Services therapist then reviews the completed questionnaire and the students receive a personal written response, offering options for support and access to services. Suicide Prevention Campus Prevention Initiatives Report a Concern Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.