Intern Seminars | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Intern Seminars Orientation Interns begin their appointments five weeks prior to the beginning of fall term. The first few weeks' activities are designed to help interns learn more about the UCC system, receive training, and get to know staff and members of their cohort. Specialized training seminars are offered in selected areas (e.g., brief therapy, multicultural supervision, trauma, etc.). A flexible schedule is maintained during this period to allow interns to become acquainted with the area and the university while moving into their offices. Assessment and Psychological Testing Seminar Interns meet with the assessment seminar leader during orientation to learn about how to integrate assessment information into brief therapy work in a counseling center. The seminar leader reviews objective inventories available at the UCC that can be used for ongoing clinical work and highlights the ways in which the repeated CCAPS measure can be best utilized with clients. The assessment seminar will discuss ways interns can select, interpret, and integrate assessment information into their clinical work. Assessment and Treatment of Eating Disorders This seminar module during orientation focuses on general models of assessment and treatment of eating disorders, including empirically-supported treatments. This module will incorporate sharing of research, discussion of how to work with clients' ambivalence, and exploration of body sizism. A range of client handouts/tools and clinical interventions will be presented. Assessment and Treatment of Psychological Trauma This seminar module during orientation focuses on general models of assessment and treatment of trauma, including empirically-supported treatments. While some time is spent in didactic presentation of material, the majority of the seminar will revolve around discussion and presentation of clinical cases by the seminar leader and interns. Assessment and Treatment of Substance Abuse This seminar module during orientation focuses on general models of assessment and treatment of substance abuse, including empirically-supported treatments. While some time is spent in didactic presentation of material, the majority of the seminar will revolve around discussion and presentation of clinical cases by the seminar leader and interns. In addition, interns will receive information about the UCC substance abuse services. Brief Therapy Seminar This seminar module during orientation provides theoretical and practical information on providing brief therapy in counseling centers. Discussion and clinical cases are included in the format. Case Presentation Seminar This seminar during fall, winter, and spring terms provides additional opportunity for interns to get supervision and feedback regarding their clinical skills from seminar facilitators and intern peers. Interns will present once each term on a client, and integrate assessment and research information into their presentations to further enhance their conceptualization, intervention, and clinical presentation skills. Crisis Intervention and Risk Management Seminar This seminar module during orientation and fall term addresses risk assessment, theoretical and empirically-supported approaches to managing crisis situations, and UCC policies and procedures related to crisis management. Ethical and Legal Issues This seminar during orientation and fall term focuses on orienting interns to Oregon State statutes pertaining to the practice of psychology, reviewing aspects of the Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code Of Conduct, and exploring ethical and legal dilemmas faced by psychologists. Groups Seminar This seminar provides training on group therapy. The seminar will focus on practical issues, such as screening group members, being a co-leader, facilitating group processes, and learning about theory and effectiveness with clients. Interns will show video clips of their group facilitation to get feedback from the leader and their peers on their group facilitation skills. Multicultural Seminar This year-long seminar provides didactic and experiential training in multicultural issues. Interns focus on how one’s own culture affects both the personal and professional self, and how diversity issues affect the therapeutic process. The goals are to increase interns’ competence in working effectively with diverse clientele and to appreciate a multicultural perspective. Professional Development Seminar In this fall, winter, and spring seminar, interns discuss issues and get support around a range of topics related to their internship experience, their professional development, and their job search process. Interns may discuss the challenges and exciting parts of internship, discuss their learning around their professional identities, explore their peer relaitonships with one another, and/or discuss their questions and hopes around job search. The seminar facilitators will provide time and information on how to produce strong application materials, how to navigate job interviews, and how to negotiate job offers. Job search information will be shared and additional support will be provided to help interns prepare vitaes and cover letters for various positions. Supervision Seminar This year-long seminar supervises interns on their clinical supervision of practicum interns. Topics include models of supervision, assessment of supervisees, supervision strategies and techniques, multicultural supervision, ethics, and relationship issues. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.