Coping with Breakups | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Coping with Breakups What is it? Successful intimate relationships often take on added significance during college. This additional pressure can make the end of a relationship seem like a crisis or trigger a mixture of feelings potentially including anger, confusion, ambivalence, betrayal, guilt, and many other emotions. After a relationship ends, daily habits or routines may be drastically altered and you could experience a lack of motivation or inability to focus. How we respond to the end of a relationship can look very different. What can help? Let yourself grieve. The ending of a relationship can feel like the loss of an important person in your life. Feelings around this can often be painful or frustrating. However, it is important that we allow ourselves to feel these emotions so that we can begin to recover and take care of ourselves. Take time for you. The process after a breakup can offer an opportunity to focus on your own growth and learning about yourself. Taking time to recognize what you learned from the relationship and rediscover yourself outside of a relationship can be positive steps forward. Talk with others. Sometimes it is helpful to talk about these things with those close to us or even a therapist. Putting emotions into words can help clarify our experiences and assist us in constructing realistic goals or expectations. Additional Resources We offer a variety of services where students can explore cultivating healthy relationships. Browse our services here . One popular group therapy option is called Creating Healthy Relationships for students who are interested in learning about their relationship with themselves and with others in their lives. Learn more here. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.