Well-being Tools | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Collegiate Recovery Center Well-being Tools Anonymous Mental Health Screen The CCAPS-Screen is a completely anonymous and confidential online mental health screening instrument that assesses the most common mental health concerns experienced by students. It is a user-friendly tool that can help students decide when further evaluation or support may be recommended. The CCAPS-Screen is available 24/7, takes approximately 3–5 minutes to complete, and a profile report is automatically generated for students to review. Students are then able to decide for themselves which steps to take next in caring for their mental health. CCAPS-Screen Anonymous Substance Use Assessment The AUDIT and CUDIT are anonymous, personalized interventions that measure student substance use and provide individualized feedback. Students with interest in learning more about their alcohol and/or cannabis use and how they compare to the use of peers can access the AUDIT/CUDIT 24/7. Each assessment takes 5–10 minutes to complete. Students can decide which steps they’d like to take next in creating or maintaining healthy relationships with substances. AUDIT — Alcohol CUDIT — Cannabis WellTrack App WellTrack is a free resource that is available to all UO students. It can help you understand your feelings of stress, anxiety, and/or depression, and teach you techniques to minimize and manage these feelings. WellTrack is a self-guided and interactive way to manage your mental well-being. To register for an account, download the WellTrack app from the App Store or Google Play and register using your "@uoregon" email address. For students wanting to access the web version of WellTrack, you can go to uoregon.welltrack.com and sign in using your "@uoregon" email address. WellTrack on the App Store WellTrack on Google Play WellTrack Website Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.