Suicide Concerns | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Suicide Concerns If you believe a student of yours may be having suicidal thoughts, use these guidelines to help you assess the situation and decide on next steps. If you need assistance or if you have any questions please call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227. After hours you will be connected to the After-Hours Support and Crisis Line. S.A.F.E.R. SIGNS— Look for actions, thoughts, feeling, or physical evidence of suicidal intent. This may include statements of hopelessness, worthlessness, extreme sadness, or numbness. ASK— Ask directly about students’ thoughts about suicide. Be specific. Don’t ask if they are thinking about harming themselves since there are many non-lethal ways to harm oneself. Ask, “Are you thinking about killing yourself?” (Asking the question will not put the idea in their head) FIND OUT— Determine the need for immediate assistance. Have they made a plan? If so, more immediate action is warranted. ENLIST— Involve other people who can provide care and support. Call or walk them to Counseling Services or other listed resource. Consult with one of our counselors at 541-346-3227. REPORT— File a Suicide Concern Form with the university to initiate professional follow-up, or contact the Office of the Dean of Students to let them know you are concerned about a student. The report is especially helpful for students at risk of suicide who are reluctant to seek professional help. Suicide Prevention Training Additional Ways to Help Students Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.