Mental Health Resources | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Mental Health Resources Mental Health and Coping During COVID-19 During these unprecedented times, everyone has different reactions to the burden of stress due to the novel coronavirus. You may experience: Increased stress and anxiety beyond your normal levels Concerns about balancing school, work, and relationships from home Anger and anxiety about having to confine your daily movement to one space A desire to use unhealthy coping mechanisms that interfere with normal eating, sleeping, and self-care behaviors, such as eating too much or too little, and excessive use of drugs or alcohol Boredom and frustration because you may not be able to go about your daily routine Symptoms of depression, such as feelings of hopelessness, changes in appetite, or sleeping too little or too much How to support yourself: Connect with others. Reach out to people you trust using text messaging, the telephone, emails, video chats, and social media to keep in touch and talk about how you are doing. Maintain a routine and take care of your body. Stick to a sleep schedule and eat a healthy diet. Avoid excessive exposure to media coverage of COVID-19. It’s good to be knowledgeable, but too much exposure can become overwhelming. Identify things you are hopeful for or grateful for in your life. Infuse some variety into your daily activities. Try something new you have been meaning to do. Source: Adapted from the CDC website Below are links to tips to help you manage your anxiety, and resources to help serve the social and emotional needs of our campus community, as we adjust to the evolving impact of COVID-19. If you're having trouble coping on your own, please reach out. Counseling Services is still here for you. If you have any questions about your options for mental health support, call us at 541-346-3227. We will have the next available counselor return your call to discuss your options and to answer your questions. Get Mental Health Services Self-Care Playlist on YouTube Coronavirus Anxiety and Supporting Students’ Mental Health Tips to Manage Anxiety (American Psychological Association) Coronavirus Anxiety Podcast (APA) Coronavirus Response Research (APA) Psychological First Aid: Resources for Faculty in Higher Education (Tufts University) Managing Stress and Anxiety during COVID-19 Outbreak (CDC) Toolkit for Caring for Coronavirus Anxiety (Shine) Coping and Staying Emotionally Well During COVID-19-Related School Closures (Active Minds) Live and pre-recorded webinars and discussions : COVID-19, social distancing, and mental health (Active Minds) COVID-19 and Managing Mental Health (JED) National Support Lines SAMHSA Disaster Distress Helpline : 1-800-985-5990 Suicide Prevention Lifeline : 1-800-273-TALK The Trevor Lifeline for LGBTQ Youth : 1-866-488-7386 Crisis Text Line : Text “START” to 741-741 Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.