APA Doctoral Internship | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu About Us Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Health Service Psychology Internship Counseling Services maintains an APA-accredited doctoral health service psychology internship training program in psychology as well as a doctoral practicum program in counseling psychology. Training is one of the highlights of our work, and we look forward to supporting and empowering our trainees to realize their personal and professional potential. We are a committed training site in which all of our staff contribute to the training programs we offer. We use a practitioner-scholar training model, embedded in a developmental and multicultural framework. We see our entire professional staff as training staff and look forward to the various ways we get to interact with trainees throughout the year. The University Counseling Center's internship is fully accredited by the American Psychological Association. Questions related to the program's accredited status should be directed to the Commission on Accreditation: Office of Program Consultation and Accreditation 750 First Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20002. Ph. 202–336-5979 or apaaccred@apa.org . Admission, Support, and Initial Placement Data Counseling Services participates in the National Matching Service as approved by the Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers (APPIC). We are an accredited site listed in the APPIC matching directory. Please review the details of our minimum and preferred qualifications for our internship positions on the application information. We are committed to supporting future psychologists through our internship program. Admission, Support, and Initial Placement Data A Successful Internship Includes: Total of 2000 hours of professional work Co-leading a psychoeducational or interpersonal process therapy group (may be a teletherapy group). Two hours of individual supervision per week Participation in outreach efforts to the university campus Completion of a year-long consultation project Explore the Program FAQ Competencies and Program Completion Training Activities Benefits: Experience being the primary supervisor for practicum interns, for nine months Prepare for searching and applying for professional positions Focus on a specific rotation with a supervisor Participation in a year long-consultation project with an underserved population All of our interns participate in several seminars during the course of their internship. The seminars are designed to acquaint you with our staff and deepen your understanding in areas including multiculturalism, (providing) supervision, and ethics.  Interns can also choose a rotation or area of specialization in collaboration with the Training Director. More Training Information Eric Garcia, PhD Assistant Director, Training Director (he/him) Bio Email Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.