About | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity About We're Here For You We are dedicated to contributing to your development and success as a student. We understand that each person comes to the UO with different experiences and identities that make them a vital part of our campus community. The Counseling Services team is dedicated to supporting all of our students and helping them through the challenges that may arise during their time here. Our Team Confidentiality Practicum Program Counseling Services Initiatives As part of University Health Services within the Division of Student Services and Enrollment Management, we are dedicated to fulfilling the mission and priorities of the University of Oregon. In order to accomplish this, we have several methods of articulating our direction toward those priorities and assessing our current efforts. Strategic Plan Impact Report Commitment to Multiculturalism Student Employment and Teams Counseling Services can help you gain practical skills and experiences that you can not only use on your résumé, but also in your day to day life. We offer opportunities for students passionate about mental health and helping their community. Typically, applications for student positions are available in the winter term for the following academic year. Counseling Services Jobs Student Advisory Board Join Our Team Preparing yourself for the world of work is one of the reasons you are here. We can help you gain practical experience that you can use on your résumé and in your future career. There are many opportunities for you to gain employment experience during your time here. Typically, applications for student positions are available in the fall for each school year. UO Position Openings Graduate Employee Position Openings Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.