Common Concerns | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Collegiate Recovery Center Common Concerns Being in college can be an overwhelming experience at times. Even though you are surrounded by resources and people, unexpected problems can leave you feeling alone and unprepared. You may not even realize what services are available to you. Whatever you're struggling with, you are not alone. We've gathered a list of concerns we hear about often, along with some suggestions for how to cope with these problems. We also have a variety of self-help books in our office, so feel free to come by and browse through them. If after reading through the resources provided you find that you would like more help or direction, please call us and set up an appointment. There may be other university or community programs we can connect you with, or you may find that meeting with a counselor could be beneficial. Above all, remember there is help available. Anxiety Learn what anxiety is and ways you can cope with anxiety. Eating Disorders Eating disorders can come in many forms, we are here to support you finding treatment. Coping with Tragedy Tragedy comes in many different forms; it's important to always remember you are not alone when faced with a tragedy. Coping with Breakups Successful intimate relationships often take on added significance during college. Learn ways you can cope and care for yourself. Coping with the Unexpected The "unexpected" can take many forms. Learn how to keep things in perspective and develop a game plan. Depression Each person may experience a depressive state differently and that's ok. Learn what can help and resources to support you. Coping with Loss Loss can come in many different forms. It is not uncommon to have difficulties coping with loss after the passing of a loved one. Learn what can help. Unhealthy Relationships Many people want healthy relationships in their lives, but defining a healthy relationship can be difficult. Lean what can help. Loneliness There are different kinds of loneliness. Learn where it comes from and what can help. Procrastination Lacking motivation or avoiding tasks can come from a variety of sources; learn what can help. Stress There are many different things that can cause us to be stressed. Stress is normal and there are a number of things you can do to help. Suicidal Ideation Having suicidal thoughts is not uncommon and you are not alone if you have them. We are here for you 24-7; please reach out. Trouble Sleeping Sleep is essential to good mental and physical health, but stress and pre-bedtime habits can make it harder to get enough rest. Coping with Change Change can come in many forms. Change can often be difficult to handle because it makes us feel uncomfortable and possibly vulnerable; learn what can help. Alcohol and Substance Use You don't have to be an alcoholic or an addict to experience negative effects from the use of alcohol and or drugs. Learn about resources to support you. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.