Getting Started | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Getting Started Students sometimes internally struggle with concerns, mulling them over in their minds and trying to sort out possible solutions to their challenges. They may talk things over with family and friends, but sometimes that may not be enough. Talking to a therapist can be a good option for addressing these concerns. What happens in therapy sessions depends on the unique needs and strengths of each person seeking support. Each therapy experience is unique, just as every individual is unique. What to Expect During Your Clinical Consult You will be asked to fill out some paperwork prior to your appointment. If this is your first visit to Counseling Services during the academic year, then paperwork will take approximately 20-30 minutes to complete. These forms include: Consent Form Demographic Information Questions related to how you have been feeling the past weeks, and questions specific to the concern you would like to address that session Upon completing the forms, you will then be seen by the next available therapist. The session with the therapist can last between 20-50 minutes depending on the nature of your concerns. We suggest students allow 60 to 90 minutes for your visit. This ensures that you have time to fill out forms, allows for possible wait time and sufficient time to discuss your concerns with the therapist. For many students, one session is all they need to start heading in the right direction. If more support is needed, you and your therapist will talk about additional services that may be helpful for you at the end of the session. After you have filled out the initial paperwork, you can access Counseling Services anytime during the academic year and expect to only fill out questions pertaining to how you have been feeling that past two weeks and the form regarding specific concerns you would like to address that session. Paperwork during follow-up visits takes approximately 5-10 minutes. Meeting with a Therapist As stated above, a clinical consult appointment can last anywhere from 20-50 minutes. The session is free and confidential. The aim of this appointment is to address the concerns you have in the moment. Therapist will listen and provide support, but can also equip students with coping strategies. Therapists will also work with students to come up with a plans for next steps that meet the needs of each individual student. You are welcome to return as needed anytime after this initial session. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.