Trans and Gender-Diverse Support Services | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Trans and Gender-Diverse Support Services Counseling Services offers a variety of specialized services to support the needs and experiences of trans, nonbinary, and gender-diverse/expansive (TNBGD/E) students. Our overarching goals for transgender and gender diverse care are: To ensure TNBGD/E students receive the highest quality care in a supportive, respectful, and therapeutic space. To communicate regularly with the TNBGD/E communities on campus to identify, address, and advocate for TNBGD/E student needs. Trans and Gender-Diverse Support Services Provided by Counseling Services Individual therapy Group therapy : a place to build community, receive and provide support, share experiences, and find empowerment in the intersections between gender, life experience, and connection with others Trans advocacy Letters of support for medical transition procedures and services Consultation with friends, family, faculty members, or staff who have questions Identifying trans-affirming referrals and providers Conducting outreach and education around campus Our Providers Counseling Services therapists provide a safe and affirming space to students who are desiring support with: exploring their gender identity, identifying ways to decrease gender dysphoria, navigating relationships, processing, and addressing discrimination, managing stress, and/or increasing self-understanding and acceptance. Shannon Stuart-Maver, PhD (they/them) is the Trans and Gender-Diverse Student Support Specialist and Trans and Gender-Expansive Student Support Team coordinator. The Trans and Gender-Expansive Student Support Team is a group of mental health therapists, medical providers, and campus partners who have specialized training and experience in supporting and addressing needs of TNBGD/E students. To access care at Counseling Services, drop in to meet with a staff member on our Mental Health Access Team. Our hours of operation can be found on our homepage. Drop-in services end one hour before Counseling Services closes each day. UHS Medical Services UHS Medical Services offers primary care physicians, clinic services, pharmacy, and other campus-based health services. UHS Medical Services has medical professionals who provide Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy (GAHT) using an informed consent model. They also have providers that focus on gender-inclusive gynecological health care and contraception. Learn more about these gender-affirming providers and treatments at health.uoregon.edu/transgender-care . On-Campus and Campus-Related Resources Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender Education and Support Services (LGBTESS) : The mission of LGBTESS is to promote a safe, equitable, accessible, and affirming campus for Two-Spirit, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromantic, and agender (2SLGBTQIA3+) students at the University of Oregon through resource navigation, education, community building, and event implementation. Trans Feminine Voice Coaches : The University of Oregon’s HEDCO Clinic has a speech-hearing-language office that offers voice training for trans feminine folks. They have two programs available—individual one-on-one lessons with a student instructor (as in, a student training to be a voice therapist) and a group conversation program called Speak Up! To sign up for individual voice therapy sessions (and Speak Up!) call the HEDCO front desk at 541-346-0923. Each week they work and build from different lessons. If you wish to join Speak Up! be sure to mention it. But if you don’t feel comfortable in a group environment, just ask for individual sessions when you call. Speak Up! is free-of-charge because it is an experimental program. Individual lessons are on a sliding-scale fee. Did you know that harassment that is related to gender or sexual orientation falls under sexual harassment? If you are experiencing sexual harassment, please visit safe.uoregon.edu or dos.uoregon.edu/crisis-and-community-support . Name, Gender Marker, and Document Changes at the UO Locate All-Gender Restrooms on Campus Report Discrimination Off-Campus Community Resources TransPonder : TransPonder is a transgender-founded and -led nonprofit based in Eugene, providing support, resources, and education for the trans/gender-diverse community and its allies. They provide many free services, including a behavioral health program, a food program, gender-affirming product vouchers, and social service. Their website also has a Trans and Gender-Diverse Resource Directory. Planned Parenthood : Planned Parenthood is available for overall sexual health needs and counseling. They also offer gender-affirming hormone therapy. Oregon Health and Science University Transgender Health Program : Provides support, information advocacy, and helps connect gender-diverse patients with OHSU providers. Legacy Transgender Health Services : Legacy Health offers complete services for transition-related, primary, and specialty care in an affirming and welcoming environment. HIV Alliance : A not-for-profit organization supporting individuals living with HIV/AIDS and preventing new HIV infections in multiple counties in Oregon. Fertility Resources: Fertility Center of Oregon — Offers fertility preservation (sperm freezing, in vitro fertilization, embryo freezing, egg freezing). Family Equality — Information on planning for fertility before transition, to advocating for yourself in the fertility doctor’s office, to supporting your family once you form it. For many folks, insurance coverage for fertility services is limited or nonexistent. The website links to several grants that may offer some assistance. Mail-order sperm preservation resources: CryoChoice , Give Legacy , ReproTech , Sppare Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.