Documentation Requests | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Documentation Requests Confidential Records Requests You may wish to have your confidential psychological records provided to a party outside Counseling Services or to receive a copy yourself. To release this information, you must sign a Release of Information form and provide us with contact information for the intended recipient of your records. Records are typically delivered by fax or mail. If you are currently in therapy discuss this release with your therapist. Otherwise, call our front desk at 541-346-3227, or come by Counseling Services in person to sign the release form. Once we have a signed release from you, it generally takes 10–14 business days to process your records request. Financial Aid and Academic Petition Letters In some instances, students choose to petition for exceptions to academic or financial aid policies and require verification of related mental health concerns. We are happy to work with students to provide these letters whenever appropriate. To be able to provide a substantive letter, a student must have participated in ongoing therapy services during the time period in question. We are unable to verify difficulties experienced when a student was not actively in therapy. Please notify your former therapist or, if unavailable, our front desk staff of your request and we will see what we can do to help. Documentation of Mental Health Related Disabilities The Accessible Education Center is the office responsible for determining eligibility and related accomodations. We recommend scheduling an appointment with them to discuss what type of documentation are required. In some instances, a letter from a therapist is needed to describe current functional challenges related to a mental health diagnosis. A student must have participated, or be actively participating, in therapy at Counseling Services in order for us to provide appropriate verification and support of a mental health concern. If you are a current client at Counseling Services, you can talk with your therapist to assist you. Please don't hesitate to call us at 541-346-3227 to ask any questions about this process. Talk to Your Instructors It is natural to feel uncomfortable talking to instructors about academic difficulties stemming from personal or psychological concerns. Often, students will avoid communicating their difficulties out of personal discomfort until the situation worsens or becomes a crisis. Unfortunately, this means instructors often do not learn of a student's difficulties until it is too late to address the problem successfully. We strongly encourage you to talk to course instructors as soon as you realize personal, emotional, and psychological issues are interfering with your academic progress. While there are no guarantees instructors will be able to resolve your academic difficulties, instructors can better help with your success when they are informed early. Counseling Services staff can also assist students in identifying effective ways to communicate with instructors about personal and psychological difficulties. Talk to a Therapist If you are struggling to manage personal difficulties and to keep up with your academic work, we are here to support you. Please call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227. For more information about accessing our services, visit our counseling and services page. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.