Support a Student | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Support a Student Together we can create a community of care. If you know a student who is struggling and aren't sure how to help, we can offer advice, support, and interventions with a phone consultation. Counseling Services provides phone consultation to faculty, staff, family, friends or others with concerns about UO students. Our therapists can suggest ways to approach options and resources available to students, and help identify next steps. Additionally, phone consultation is a good way to learn about available services and how to proceed if you would like to start therapy or join a therapy group through Counseling Services. To schedule a consultation, call our main office line and ask to speak with a therapist. Your consultation will be scheduled as soon as possible. While many consultations about students may be kept confidential, there are times when University policy or state and federal statutes require Counseling Services staff to disclose information to other university officials. For more information about confidentiality, see our confidentiality policy . Schedule a phone consultation 541-346-3227 Offering Help There are many other ways to support a UO student in need. Family members, professors, supervisors, and peers are often in a position to encourage someone to connect to resources on campus. If you're looking for ways to talk about mental health, suggestions for a struggling student, or information on dealing with specific mental health concerns, the pages linked below can help guide you. Resources for Faculty and Staff Resources for Families Resources for Students Other Campus Resources Report a Concern Dean of Students Crisis Support SAFE Website Self Help Duck Nest Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.