Commitment to Multiculturalism | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Commitment to Multiculturalism Counseling Services affirms, honors, respects, and celebrates diversity in the broadest sense including age, body size and shape, differing abilities, gender, ethnicity, nationality, outward appearance, political ideology, race, religious and spiritual beliefs, sexual and affectual orientation, and socioeconomic class. We are devoted to confronting discrimination, oppression, and prejudice in all of their many forms. As we work toward a more inclusive university community, we strive for the preservation and protection of fundamental human rights. We recognize the need to continually change ourselves and influence others to understand and promote multiculturalism. Therefore, Counseling Services seeks to maintain an atmosphere of respect and trust which encourages both students and staff members to explore, challenge, and discuss their own beliefs, biases, values, and behaviors with respect and safety. Together, we support our individual and collective growth as a multicultural agency with the knowledge that this ongoing process will allow us to embrace our differences and strengthen our community. Support During a Pandemic of Racism Many of us are experiencing a range of emotions with the recent and ongoing racial injustices and violence toward Black people, AAPI people, and other people of color. We know this is taking a psychological toll on us as individuals and as a community. Please reach out if you need support. We stand with you. Mental Health and Racial Violence Action You Can Take Let's Talk: Virtual Drop-in Consultations Black Student Services Black Healing Resources Asian Mental Health Collective Also, the Counseling Services staff wants to explicitly and unequivocally express our solidarity and support of our Black students, colleagues, and community members on campus, in Eugene/Springfield, and across the globe. Black lives matter. It is important to say this and name this as a recognition of the historical and systemic oppression and loss of life experienced by our Black community. The low number of Black community members within the state of Oregon reflects the severe, negative, and long-term impacts of violent and racist practices. There is no denying history . There is no forgetting of lives lost. We are here to be part of the change. We are here as a community. We are here as Ducks. If one of us is hurting, all of us are hurting. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.