Black Student Services | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Black Student Services Counseling Services offers a variety of specialized services to support the needs and experiences of our African American and Black* students. Below is the schedule for winter term 2024: Sista Circle Group Tuesdays, 3:30–5:00 p.m. Facilitators: Dr. Cecile Gadson and Hawi Wako Sista Circle is a processing and support group for African-American/Black-identified womxn to work through concerns such as academic stress, self-esteem, family challenges, relationships, identity development, mental health concerns, and much more. Group members will be able to work through their presenting concerns, find community, and be empowered in a protected therapy space. Black CommUnity Table Part of Wellness Wednesday at the BCC Wednesdays, 1:00–2:00 p.m. odd weeks (weeks 3, 5, 7, 9) Location: Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center Facilitators: Dr. Cecile Gadson, Dr. Aris Hall, and Garrett Ross In collaboration with the BCC, this discussion space provides a space for Black students and staff to connect for a weekly discussion related to the strengths and challenges within the community. The discussion varies weekly with topics ranging from campus climate and activism to mental health as well as popular culture. We welcome Black students and staff for an open dialogue where they can be their radical and authentic selves. Black Joy Sessions: Finding Joy Within Wednesdays, 1:00–2:00 p.m. even weeks (weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10) Location: Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center Facilitator: Dr. Cecile Gadson and Garrett Ross Black students, faculty members, and staff are invited to engage in activities that center Black joy including art, laughter, music, and movement. Black Joy Sessions create a space to center a celebration of Black culture, uplift, heal, and empower using a liberated narrative of the Black experience. This space is designed to be an easy, transformative, and love-infused space to create, express, and (re)claim Black joy. Let’s Talk With Dr. Gadson, African American/Black Student Specialist Wednesdays, 2:00–4:00 p.m. Location: Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center Let’s Talk offers brief informal consultations on a drop-in basis, so there is no appointment necessary. Students are seen on a first-come, first-served basis either in person at Let’s Talk locations across campus and/or by Zoom. Dr. Gadson specializes in working with Black students. Black Care Corner Wednesdays, noon–4:00 p.m. Location: Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center Black Care Corner is a wellness project that was envisioned by our 2022–2023 SAB African American/Black student community liaison, Johana Amani. Black Care Corner was a collective creation between Johana and two Black psychologists, Dr. Cecile A. Gadson and a former therapist. This project provides culturally curated tools and materials that center wellness for Black students and help break down mental health barriers in the Black community. Black Care Corner is in partnership with Dr. Aris Hall and her team at the Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center. Join us to participate in Wellness Wednesday and enjoy items from the Black Care Corner. Kuponya: Centering Black Healing Fridays, noon–12:45 p.m. (weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10) Location: Zoom — Register for the link Facilitator: Dr. Cecile Gadson This space is for Black-identified** students, faculty members, and staff to engage in guided soulfulness mindfulness, African-centered healing strategies, and dialogue to promote collective healing. We invite Black students, faculty members, and staff to connect, breathe, and heal in a space designed specifically for you. One-on-One Sessions with an African American/Black Student Specialist Dr. Cecile Gadson Counseling Services has therapists who specialize in working with Black students. If you would like to meet with one of these staff members, call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227 to schedule an appointment or stop by University Health Services for a drop-in appointment. You will meet with one of our Mental Health Access Team members, and you can request to work with a Black/African American Student Specialist for short-term therapy or ask more about any of the Black student services and programs we provide. African American and Black Student Specialists * Black, African, African American, Afro-Latinx, Afro-Caribbean, or the African Diaspora Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.