How to Support a Student | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now How to Support a Student Stress and Existing Concerns Today’s university students face a number of mental health issues that can affect their behavior in the classroom and impact their personal and emotional well-being. We want to make sure that we can all recognize signs of distress and know what to say if a student needs help. Identify Signs of Distress A significant change in a student’s behavior may indicate that the student is experiencing emotional or psychological distress. Some signals of distress include: Excessive procrastination and failure to turn in assignments on time Decrease in the quality of work Sudden or frequent class absences Frequent office visits or avoiding interacting with instructors Failure to respond to notice of academic problems or contacts from instructors Listlessness, sleeping in class Marked changes in personal hygiene Impaired speech or disjointed thoughts, rambling or illogical speech Significant weight loss or gain Seeming to be under the influence of drug or alcohol, smelling like alcohol Threats regarding safety of self or others How to Provide Support While students' mental health issues are a serious concern, there is good news—being a university student can be a protective factor! Universities provide a broad range of resources to identify students of concern and to intervene when needed. Faculty and staff are an important part of the safety net for students experiencing mental health issues. Here are a few important tips: Notice changes in behavior among your students. Communicate your concerns directly to the student. Be specific and behavioral. For example, “I’m worried about you. You have been missing class a lot lately.” or, “You usually participate actively in class discussions, but lately you have been very quiet and you seem to have difficulty staying awake.” Ask directly about students’ thoughts about suicide. Again, be specific. Don’t ask if they are thinking about harming themselves since there are many non-lethal ways to harm oneself. Instead, say something like, “Are you thinking about killing yourself?” Ask directly about students’ thoughts regarding violence toward others. For example, use a statement like, “You feel so angry toward person X. Is there any chance that you are considering harming that person?” Students will sometimes say that they want to tell you something, but that they do not want to you tell anyone. Do not promise to keep something private until you know what it is. Even mental health professionals cannot guarantee absolute confidentiality when someone’s life is in danger. Maintain clear and consistent boundaries. While it may be important to do something out of the ordinary for a student in order to help, notice if you are consistently overextending yourself. Be aware of your own life experiences that might cause you to over identify with students. Over identification can sometimes lead us to ignore the boundaries we need to set with students or to assume that what helped us will also help the student. Be aware of experiences that might cause you to feel more afraid of, intimidated by, or annoyed with some students. Those feelings might cause you to avoid interacting with a troubled student or to address concerning behavior. Remember that your role is to identify concerns and refer to mental health and other professionals. Call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227 to consult. Ask the student if you can call or accompany them to Counseling Services to assist in getting them connected. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.