Self-Care | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Collegiate Recovery Center Self-Care Self-Care Expanding your wellness skills toolkit and practicing holistic self-care can help you overcome setbacks and unexpected issues. If you're facing a challenge that feels too big to handle on your own, reach out to us for support. Common Concerns College is a transitional time in life, and many students struggle. While everyone's experience is different, we've gathered information on a few challenges students often seek support for. We've also provided relevant advice and resources for each issue so you can get the help you need. Browse Issues Self-Care Kit Whether you're working with a mental health professional or looking to improve your wellbeing on your own, there are so many self-care strategies and techniques you can practice outside of therapy. This list of coping strategies is a great place to start. Explore Coping Strategies Be Well Blog Looking for more self-care ideas and inspiration? The Be Well Blog covers a wide range of topics related to mental health, written by our staff. Check back often for new posts. Read the Blog YouTube Channel Watch short videos made by our therapists about mental health and self-care. Counseling YouTube Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.