Training Activities | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu About Us Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ Training Activities Training Activities Individual Supervision Interns receive two hours of individual clinical supervision per week. Supervision matches are made by the training director after discussing training and supervision needs with the intern. Supervision pairings change once around mid-year. Additionally, interns have the opportunity to engage in a second supervisory relationship with a senior clinician on a rotating basis throughout the year. Secondary supervision typically focuses on additional support regarding the intern's rotation, yet could also focus on a particular clinical specialty or theoretical orientation. Clinical Team Meetings Teams including trainees and clinical staff consult on case management (e.g., brief vs. long term treatment), and provide mutual support. Team composition represents diversity by gender, ethnicity, theoretical orientation, and experience. These meetings provide opportunities for interns to actively select clients and build experience with a diverse range of presenting concerns and client identities. Professional Staff Development Interns participate in staff development sessions. Focuses include: Team-building activities Staff presentations in areas of expertise Presentations by psychologists from the university and Eugene community Case presentations by both interns and staff Intern Seminars We offer a number of different seminars to provide further training for our doctoral interns. Seminars range in topics from crisis intervention to more specific training on areas such as eating disorders, trauma, and substance abuse. Some seminars are year-long while others are offered during the orientation period to prepare interns for more in-depth supervision on these issues throughout the year. INTERN SEMINAR AREAS Rotations and Concentrations Interns will have the option of doing a year–long rotation or quarterly concentrations in which they can emphasize a specialty area. Rotations and concentrations offered change depending on supervisor and other availability. Concentration and rotation decisions are made by the training director in collaboration with the interns after exploring their internship and career goals. ROTATIONS AND CONCENTRATIONS Rotations (two quarters to full year) Eating Disorders Substance Abuse Trauma Multicultural Student Services Training and Supervision Concentrations (quarterly) University Health Center Counseling Diverse Populations Suicide Prevention Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.