Doctoral Internship Description | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Doctoral Internship Description Primary Internship Objectives The internship is a time to develop advanced professional skills and begin to establish an integrated professional identity. The internship provides considerable autonomy and responsibility while offering constructive feedback and emotional support for personal and professional integration. Primary objectives include developing conceptual knowledge, applied skills, and competence in the following areas: Individual psychotherapy, with an emphasis on brief psychotherapy Group psychotherapy Multiculturalism Crisis intervention Clinical supervision Consultation Outreach programming Professional ethics and decision-making Professional functioning in an agency setting Most responsibilities are structured into the internship, but interns are encouraged to exercise choices within these domains (e.g., types of groups, rotations, consultation project). We encourage a balance between exploring new areas of practice and further developing current areas of expertise. Personal and Professional Integration Personal and professional integration often involves examining personal characteristics and issues that are relevant to professional effectiveness and success. When doing so, the UCTC follows APA’s Ethical Standard 7.04 (Student Disclosure of Personal Information) as contained in the Revised Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct (APA, 2002). It is important that interns know that self-disclosure will be part of the supervisory and training experience during the doctoral psychology internship. Training staff will assist the intern to explore and understand the characteristics and dynamics the intern brings to interpersonal and professional situations. Staff will help interns explore how these characteristics and dynamics facilitate or hinder effective professional interactions and interventions. This exploration will also include identifying and processing intern cohort dynamics in order to assist interns in developing professional, collegial relationship skills. Training Model The University of Oregon Counseling and Testing Center subscribes to a practitioner-scholar model of training in which members of our training staff: Facilitate experiential and discussion based seminars Provide didactic presentations Assume mentorship and supervision roles Co-lead therapy groups with interns Oversee the general growth and development of the interns Co-facilitate/mentor interns in outreach facilitation and consultation Monitoring the progress of training is an ongoing process. It includes evaluating each intern's progress on an ongoing, informal basis in supervision, as well as through written, formal evaluation two times a year. Staff regularly provide feedback both as a way to provide ample time for the intern to grow, but also to decrease worry around formal evaluation periods. In addition, feedback from interns regarding the relevance and effectiveness of the training experience is routinely solicited and included in a written evaluation twice each year. Training Emphasis Our primary goal is to prepare our interns for generalist positions in college and university counseling centers. Our generalist training program is focused on core competencies in the field for general practice and so we also prepare interns for practice in other clinical settings similar to our agency. The training emphasis includes the integration of cultural and individual diversity and professional ethics and decision-making. Staff members have reaffirmed a strong commitment to supervise, teach, and mentor the interns. All professional staff members are considered part of the "training staff." Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.