Competencies and Program Completion | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Competencies and Program Completion Training Program Aim and Competencies Interns are expected to achieve the following competencies by the end of the internship year. For more detailed information on the profession wide competencies that all accredited training programs adhere to, please review APA's Office of Program Consultation and Accreditations Implementing Regulation, C-8 I. Internship Aim : At the completion of the internship, UCC interns will have the requisite competencies for entry into health service psychology, consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Intervention Competency: Interns will develop intervention skills appropriate for an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Assessment Competency: Interns will develop evidence based assessment skills appropriate for an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Supervision provision Competency: Interns will develop an approach to supervision and obtain basic supervisory skills appropriate for an entry level health service psychologist with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Multicultural Competency: Interns will obtain awareness, knowledge and skills necessary to become multiculturally competent to practice as an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Consultation, outreach, & Interprofessional Skills Competency: Interns will develop interprofessional skills that contribute to effective consultation and outreach services appropriate for an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Professional values, attitudes, and behavior Competency: Interns develop increasingly independent professional values, attitudes, and behaviors expected of an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Communication and interpersonal skills Competency: Interns develop professional communication and interpersonal skills expected of an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Ethical and legal standards Competency: Interns will gain the requisite ethical and legal skills to respond professionally in increasingly complex situations appropriate for an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Research Competency: Interns will develop and demonstrate the integration of science and practice appropriate for an entry level health service psychologist consistent with the practices of a counseling center psychologist. Exit Criteria In order to successfully complete the internship, the following criteria must be met: Working an average of 40-45 hours per week during academic quarters at CS Total full time professional work of at least 2000 hours. Provision of 10-12 regularly scheduled client contacts per week during Fall term, 11-13 regularly scheduled client contacts per week during Winter and Spring terms, and 8-12 regularly scheduled client contacts per week during Summer term (Summer term numbers determined by agency need and availability of clients).These client contact hours are part of the 500 direct service hours required by APA/APPIC for internship. 4-6 hours of Clinical Consultation Coverage hours per week. Co-leading a Creating Healthy Relationships group for a minimum of one quarter term (preferably 2 quarters minimum). Attending all seminars unless absences have been excused by the seminar leader and Training Director. Participating in at least two hours weekly, regularly scheduled, individual supervision. Providing a minimum of 90 minutes to two hours weekly, regularly scheduled, individual supervision to a practicum intern for nine months. Providing a minimum of six campus outreach facilitations/presentations. Participate in a minimum of one critical incident and/or crisis debriefing (unless no debriefs requested). Completing a year long consultation project (project approved by Director of Education and Prevention Outreach first week of fall term). Provision of diagnosis consistent with the current CS policy of unlicensed clinicians. Completing all clinical paperwork in a timely manner, including having specific paperwork countersigned by the intern's supervisor. Evaluations indicate that the intern's performance meets all of the competency requirements outlined in Section XV (Competency Expectations). Competency will be demonstrated at the end of the internship by having a rating of 4 (Doctoral level) on each overall competency area. Certificate information form must be completed and turned in, keys must be returned to administrative staff in addition to all tasks on “End of Year Checklist”. Complete Internship Program Evaluation which is used by Training Director to improve program and as feedback for APA re-accreditation. Participate in APPIC Internship Selection Committee. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.