Stress | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Stress What is it? Stress refers to our internal response to negative moments or situations outside of ourselves. There are many different things that can cause us to be stressed. Stress is natural and we all have our own way of managing stress. However, stress can accumulate over time if different stressors pile up or we do not allow ourselves time to recover from stress. Stress comes in various forms. Some stressors are discrete and have readily identifiable solutions. Examples include burning toast, a printer running out of ink, or a car engine not starting. Other stressors are  is more vaguely defined, tends to persist over time, and is not as easily resolved. Examples include family conflicts, financial distress, or a bad relationship. What can help? Stress is both physical and mental which means we can lower our stress through physical and psychological strategies. The goal for any strategy is to create more balance in your life. This can look like taking more time to relax, be active outside, or connect with friends. Planning regular breaks or stress management activities helps to keep your stress in check before it becomes overwhelming. Resources Learn more about our services, including individual therapy, consultation, and Let's Talk here . We also offer a variety of group sessions and workshops to help people who want to learn more about coping strategies and managing stress. You can find more information here . Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.