Mental Health and Healing Resources for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Mental Health and Healing Resources for Black, Indigenous, and People of Color The widespread publication of images of violence against Black people has caused great pain for our Black students and other students of color. These services and self-care resources are geared towards supporting students as they deal with the trama of violence against their communities. Counseling Services offers multiple options for services for UO students in Eugene and elsewhere, including identity-based support. Call 541-346-3227 during open hours to schedule in-person, teletherapy, and consultation appointments, or to speak with a mental health professional immediately. Same-day appointment scheduling is available. Crisis Support The Steve Fund, an organization focused on supporting the mental health and emotional well-being of young people of color, has a 24/7 Crisis Text Line. Text STEVE to 741741 to connect with a culturally trained crisis counselor. BlackLine is a crisis support phone and text line that focuses on supporting Black, Black LGBTQI+, Brown, Indigenous, and Muslim folx, but supports all regardless of identity. Call 1-800-604-5841 to receive support. Downloadable Toolkits for Healing The Community Healing Network's Healing in the Face of Racial Trauma toolkit , created by and for people of African ancestry, is available for free download. The Institute for the Study and Promotion of Race and Culture at Boston College has created a Racial Trauma Toolkit to help communities of color manage post trauma symptoms. Supportive Communities and Therapist Directories Melanin and Mental Health produces the Between Sessions mental health podcast and offers help finding a therapist of color in your community. Therapy for Black Girls has a variety of resources for mental health support and help connecting with mental health professionals. The National Queer and Trans Therapist of Color Network has a directory of providers who identify as queer people of color, and offer financial resources for accessing support. Black Mental Health Alliance has additional resources, support, and education, as well as another directory of Black psychiatrists. Sista Afya Community Mental Wellness connects Black womxn across the diaspora to support community and healing through education, resource referrals, and connections. Other Self-Care Resources Liberate is a meditation app by and for BIPoC folx. The meditations incorporate social just principals to focus on healing from internalized racism and external systemic racism, microaggressions, and other day-to-day experiences. Zahra Barnes put together 44 Mental Health Resources for Black People Trying to Survive in this Country , with people and organizations to follow and things to remember while seeking support. These self-care tips for Black people who are struggling with this very painful week from Rachel Miller at Vice offers some ideas for relief. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.