Cecile A. Gadson, PhD | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Cecile A. Gadson, PhD Senior Staff Psychologist, African American/Black Student Specialist Pronouns: She/Hers Education: BA, psychology, minor in women studies, Winthrop University MA, counseling psychology, Towson University PhD, counseling psychology, University of Tennessee-Knoxville Pre-doctoral Internship, Florida International University, Counseling Center Postdoctoral Multicultural-Emphasis Fellowship, University of Kansas Medical Center, Counseling Services Professional Interests: My primary clinical interests include trauma, discrimination-based stress, depression, family concerns, women’s wellness, mindfulness, religion/spirituality concerns, and multicultural/Black psychology. I am a certified Sawubona healing circle trainer and facilitator. I am also trained in soulfulness mindfulness, a BIPOC (Black Indigenous People of Color) focused meditation under the scholarship of Dr. Shelly Harrell. As a scholar, I research the gendered racial microaggression experiences of Black girls. Given my training from a Scientist-Practitioner-Advocate model, I believe it is important to not only integrate multiculturally competent research, clinical practice, and social justice advocacy for my clients in the therapy room, but also advocate for social issues that impact clients outside the therapy room. I find justice and joy from my creation and collaboration of creating culturally centered wellness spaces and resources. Theoretical Orientation and Therapy Approach: I take an integrative approach that often pulls from mindfulness-based and emotion-focused interventions within a multicultural-feminist framework. I believe it is important to acknowledge, explore, and understand our social identities to respond to both acute and long-term presenting concerns in therapy. I approach therapy from a collaborative, strength-based, and empowering space to help my clients work towards their therapeutic goals. As I study deeper into liberated ways of healing, specifically, Black psychology, I infuse these philosophies and interventions in my specialty work. Supervision Approach and Model: My supervision style uses a developmental (discriminate) model that is grounded in Black-Feminist Thought/multicultural feminist theory. I approach the supervisory relationship from an empowerment framework with the agenda of dismantling of systemic barriers to mental health and overall well-being. I practice under the philosophy of jegnaship that applies African-centered approaches to teaching and imparting knowledge to the future of our professional field. I take a loving and gentle approach that challenges/empowers my supervisees to be the professional they envision. My approach is wholistic in attention to care and attention to the personal, professional, and advocate parts of the individual. My approach is joy infused as I believe it is important to counter our experiences with liberation and joy. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.