Suicide Prevention | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Suicide Prevention We work with UO students, faculty members, and staff—as well as other universities—to support students in need through training and outreach. If you are thinking about suicide, call the Counseling Services After-Hours Support and Crisis Line at 541-346-3227 or the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 1-800-273-TALK (8255) now. Or text "OREGON" to 741-741. Suicide Prevention Team The Suicide Prevention Team is an interdisciplinary group that meets monthly to explore ways to enhance suicide prevention on campus. This group also provides suicide prevention trainings through UO Professional Development every term, as well as trainings open to all faculty, staff, and GEs by request. If you are interested in joining the Suicide Prevention Team, please email Education and Prevention Outreach Director Mariko Lin ( marikol@uoregon.edu ). Find a Suicide Prevention Course Request a Suicide Prevention Training Report a Concern Student Suicide Prevention Team The Student Suicide Prevention Team (SSPT) is a student group that works together to advocate for mental health and suicide prevention by encouraging understanding, awareness, and action. SSPT also provides regular peer-to-peer education trainings to recognize suicide risk and protective factors, warning signs, how to respond and refer appropriately, provide campus and community resources, and promote self-care. If you have questions about SSPT, please email Education and Prevention Outreach Director Mariko Lin ( marikol@uoregon.edu ). Request a Training from Our Student Team Applied Suicide Intervention Skills Training (ASIST) ASIST is a two-day, two-trainer, workshop designed for members of all caregiving groups. Family, friends, and other community members may be the first to talk with a person at risk, but have little or no training. ASIST can also provide those in formal helping roles with professional development to ensure that they are prepared to provide suicide first aid help as part of the care they provide. The emphasis is on teaching how to help a person at risk stay safe, and encourage them to seek further help as needed. The course is highly participatory, and includes mini-lectures, facilitated discussions, group simulations, and role plays. Login to MyTrack to search for ASIST Trainings Oregon College and University Suicide Prevention Project The Oregon College and University Suicide Prevention Project (OCUSPP) is a joint effort by colleges and universities in Oregon to reduce suicide risk on our campuses. The consortium grew out of collaboration supported by the three-year Garrett Lee Smith federal grant in 2005. In 2008, we sought and obtained funding from member institutions to continue our work. We promote best practices in suicide prevention and help member campuses enhance their prevention efforts through consultation, collaboration, and trainings.  We advocate for policies and procedures that will make our campuses safer. The UO has provided directorship and administrative support since the consortium began. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.