Let’s Talk | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Let’s Talk What is Let’s Talk? Let’s Talk is a service that provides easy access to free, informal, and confidential one-on-one consultation with a Counseling Services staff member. Let’s Talk is especially helpful for students who: Have a specific concern and would like to consult with someone about it. Would like on-the-spot consultation rather than ongoing counseling. Would like to consult with a Counseling Services staff member about what actual therapy looks like. Would like to meet with one of our Counseling Services identity-based specialists. Have a concern about a friend or family member and would like some ideas about what to do. How does Let’s Talk work? Let’s Talk offers brief informal consultations on a drop-in basis. There is no scheduling needed and no paperwork to complete. Students are seen on a first-come, first-served basis either in person at Let’s Talk locations across campus and/or by Zoom. There may be a wait if the Let’s Talk staff member is meeting with another student. Please wait and we will be with you as soon as we can. Let’s Talk appointments are brief (usually between 15–30 minutes) and are meant to be used on an as-needed basis. Let’s Talk Schedule Summer Term 2024 The following times offered are for all UO students, while noting staff specializations. Refer to staff bios for more information. Students are encouraged to access any session that works with their schedule. Day Time Let’s Talk Staff In-person Location or Zoom Link Wednesday, June 26 Noon–2:00 p.m. Mariko Lin, PhD Education and Prevention Outreach Director Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, July 3 Noon–2:00 p.m. Mariko Lin, PhD Education and Prevention Outreach Director Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, July 10 Noon–2:00 p.m. Mariko Lin, PhD Education and Prevention Outreach Director Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, July 17 Noon–2:00 p.m. Melissa Gomsrud, MA Senior Staff Therapist Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, July 24 Noon–2:00 p.m. Kate Phillips, LCSW Senior Staff Therapist Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, July 31 Noon–2:00 p.m. Kate Phillips, LCSW Senior Staff Therapist Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, August 7 Noon–2:00 p.m. Sarah Anderson-Wilk, LCSW Senior Staff Therapist Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, August 14 Noon–2:00 p.m. Sarah Anderson-Wilk, LCSW Senior Staff Therapist Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Wednesday, August 21 Noon–2:00 p.m. Sarah Anderson-Wilk, LCSW Senior Staff Therapist Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence, Oregon Hall Room 130 — or — Click here for Waiting Room Monday, August 26 Noon–2:00 p.m. Dusty Destler, PhD Senior Staff Therapist Knight Law Center, Room 220F — or — Click here for Waiting Room Monday, September 2 NA NA Closed for Labor Day Monday, September 9 Noon–2:00 p.m. Dusty Destler, PhD Senior Staff Therapist Knight Law Center, Room 220F — or — Click here for Waiting Room Monday, September 16 Noon–2:00 p.m. Dusty Destler, PhD Senior Staff Therapist Knight Law Center, Room 220F — or — Click here for Waiting Room Monday, September 26 Noon–2:00 p.m. Dusty Destler, PhD Senior Staff Therapist Knight Law Center, Room 220F — or — Click here for Waiting Room NOTE: Days and times are subject to change each term and when classes are not in session. Let's Talk Post Survey If you have recently utilized the Let’s Talk service, please complete our post survey . The information gathered will be helpful to track our services and better serve our students. All your responses to the questions are voluntary and anonymous. Let's Talk Disclosure Statement Please review this information before your Let’s Talk meeting. Let’s Talk is an informal consultation service and is NOT psychotherapy or mental health treatment. Information shared with Counseling Services staff is considered confidential , consistent with the parameters of state and federal law and UO policy. If we believe you are a danger to yourself or others, we may not keep this conversation confidential. Other situations where we may share information with others include, child or elderly abuse, and legal requests for information. Please let us know if you have questions about confidentiality. We’re here to help! Note: If you are experiencing thoughts of suicide and/or harming others, you can call Counseling Services at 541-346-3227. After-hours phone support is available when Counseling Services is closed by calling the same phone number. If you are experiencing a mental health emergency, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency room. Frequently Asked Questions How is Let’s Talk different from therapy at Counseling Services? Let’s Talk is not formal counseling, it is a drop-in service where students can have informal consultation with a therapist from time to time as needed. Let’s Talk is a brief consultation. Traditional clinical records are not kept for Let’s Talk consultations. In an optional post evaluation, students are asked to provide general demographic information and information about what brings them to Let’s Talk, which allows us to understand the student populations we are serving and improve our services further. Let’s Talk takes place outside of the University Health Services building. Would going to Let’s Talk help me figure out what to do about an issue I have? Yes. The Let’s Talk staff member will talk though your concern with you and help you determine the best way to move forward. Students often utilize Let’s Talk as a space to get perspective on a particular issue and for help with problem-solving. What do people usually bring up in Let’s Talk? Students come in with a variety of concerns and none are off limits. The most common include stress, worry, relationship concerns, academic performance, and help with decision-making. I am currently seeing a therapist at Counseling Services and I would like to come in sooner than my next appointment. Can I go to Let’s Talk instead? Let’s Talk is not meant for students who would like to be seen sooner than their next appointment at Counseling Services. If you’d like to meet with your therapist sooner than your next appointment, it’s best to contact your therapist directly or call the Counseling Services main phone number at 541-346-3227. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.