Therapy and Services | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Therapy and Services Help and Support for You We provide a variety of mental health services to UO students and the campus community. Consultations Black Student Services PDX Campus Resources Collegiate Recovery Center Be Well Blog Gender Support Services Crisis Support and Response We are here to help when you are in a mental-health related crisis or our community experiences tragedy. During some of the most difficult times for our community, we work to provide the support you need. Everyone experiences these moments differently and has unique needs. Whatever you need, we have support and resources for you. Crisis Support Mental Health Access Team The Mental Health Access Team is designed to help reduce barriers for access to mental health care and provide a bridge to other UHS mental health services. The staff includes mental health professionals such as intake/crisis specialists and case managers. Appointments are not required. Students may drop in to UHS during regular hours and request to meet with a professional on this team. The last appointment of the day will be one hour before UHS closes (e.g., 4:00 p.m. when UHS closes at 5:00 p.m.). The team will meet with the student, usually shortly after arrival and completion of intake forms, and provide urgent mental health screening, crisis intervention, in-the-moment support, assistance with referrals for medication management, and assistance to students in planning for their continued mental health care. Connecting Individually Each individual is unique and has diverse needs. We make sure that you are matched with a staff member that will fit best with your needs and concerns. Individual therapy is great for anyone looking to take a deeper look at their current circumstances or an issue of concern. Our staff are knowledgeable about a variety of topics and are here to support you. Individual Therapy Support from Peer Perspectives Talking about our challenges and personal concerns can be difficult. Fear of judgment or anxiety can leave us paralyzed. But finding support in others can be powerful. Our group therapy sessions work to create an environment without judgment and fear to discuss issues concerning mental health and wellness. Each group works together to support each other and build strong relationships. Life can be difficult to navigate; find support in the people that surround you. Group Therapy Support in the Community Sometimes community therapists or clinics may better suit your needs for long-term treatment or specific forms of treatment Counseling Services does not offer. If this is the case, our case managers will work closely with you to find the best match based on your needs and financial resources. Contact Counseling Services for help with referrals. Referrals/Case Management Missed Appointment Fee There is a $25 missed appointment/late-cancellation fee. All appointments must be cancelled or rescheduled by 1:00 p.m. the business day before an appointment (e.g. by 1:00 p.m. on Friday for a Monday appointment) to avoid these charges. A missed appointment fee may also be incurred if arriving late results in a canceled or rescheduled appointment. Missed appointment and late-cancellation fees are billed to the student’s UO account. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.