UO Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Welcome Here Whenever You Need Us Your college experience is one of growth and learning. We all face a variety of challenges and obstacles in college and in life. You may come across moments that are not easy to talk about—struggling academically, navigating personal relationships, what it's like to live with mental health concerns. It can seem like you are the only one dealing with these issues, but you are not alone. We have a team that cares deeply about your development and success. We are here to support you through the challenges and celebrate your successes. Counseling Services Confidentiality Well-Being Assessments Report a Concern Prevention and Outreach Our Team Accessing Mental Health Services University Health Services provides an integrated approach to provide mental health services. This approach allows students to have coordinated and comprehensive mental health care from our team of counselors, case managers, and psychiatrists. Our mental health providers understand the variety of challenges students face and we are experts in providing mental health care for university students. We offer an open, safe, and confidential environment to help students through issues that may interfere with their personal and academic success. Mental Health Access Team Getting support is different for everyone. It could be talking one-on-one or attending a workshop. We are here to help you identify strategies that work best for you. Let’s Talk Group Therapy WellTrack Be Well Blog Well-Being Assessments Coping Strategies Current Programs and Services Counseling Services currently offers a hybrid of in-person and virtual (Zoom) programs and services. Clinical services are by appointment only, scheduled either same day or within a week. We offer a range of short-term individual clinical services, including single-session intervention and short-term focused individual therapy (one to six sessions per academic year), group therapy, case management to assist in finding local mental health resources, consultation, and other mental health workshops. How to schedule an appointment: If you are interested in speaking with one of our therapists, for support or to learn more about our services, call to schedule a clinical consultation at 541-346-3227. Hybrid Mental Health Services Self-Care Resources Teletherapy FAQs AFTER-HOURS SUPPORT AND CRISIS LINE 541-346-3227 Any time Counseling Services is closed a mental health professional is available to provide support and connect you with resources. To connect directly to the three-digit, nationwide Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, call 988. Summer Term Hours Beginning Monday, June 24 M 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. T 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. W 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. TH 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. F 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. SA Closed SU Closed Closed July 4 and September 4 Contact Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene, OR 97403-1217 Phone: 541-346-3227 Fax: 541-346-2842 Map 541-346-3227 Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.