Individual Therapy | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Individual Therapy Students sometimes internally struggle with concerns, mulling them over in their minds and trying to sort out possible solutions to their challenges. They may talk things over with family and friends, but sometimes that may not be enough. Talking to a therapist can be a good option for addressing these concerns. What happens in therapy depends on the unique needs and strengths of each person seeking support. Each therapy experience is unique, just as every individual is unique. All Counseling Services appointments are scheduled as soon as possible given each student’s availability, concerns, and resources. Short-Term Focused Therapy Early sessions are spent exploring and clarifying the problem and examining what solutions you have already tried. This process assists the therapist in determining which therapeutic approach might be most helpful to you. Once you and your therapist clarify your concerns, together you will identify therapy goals. During individual sessions, you will work with your therapist to address your concerns. Often, the process involves increasing self-understanding, identifying patterns, gaining a better sense of how you are influenced by your surroundings, and learning and practicing new problem-solving or coping skills. Missed Appointment Fee There is a $25 missed appointment/late-cancellation fee. All appointments must be cancelled or rescheduled by 1:00 p.m. the business day before an appointment (e.g. by 1:00 p.m. on Friday for a Monday appointment) to avoid these charges. A missed appointment fee may also be incurred if arriving late results in a canceled or rescheduled appointment. Missed appointment and late-cancellation fees are billed to the student’s UO account. Getting Started If you need mental health support, the best way to access services is to call us at 541-346-3227. 541-346-3227 Confidentiality Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.