Referrals/Case Management | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Referrals/Case Management What is a Case Manager? A case manager has a special skillset to: Answer your questions. Discuss your support options. Help you identify and complete next steps; ultimately...connect you to resources! What Assistance Could a Case Manager Provide? A case manager might help: Discuss different therapy or other resources you can access, whether on or off campus. Create a personalized list of therapist referrals based on your resources/preferences, and help you move forward with next steps in that process. Investigate your health insurance to determine your benefits/session costs. If you don’t have health insurance, we can explore low cost/no cost options that might be available. Why a Referral? Sometimes longer term treatment, specific forms of treatment, and other services may be a better fit for your needs or schedule. If a referral is appropriate, our case managers work closely with you to identify community therapists or clinics that would be a good match in regards to your needs and financial resources. We will gladly assist you with contacting community therapists and agencies. How to Get a Referral We are fortunate to have many therapy providers in Eugene, including low-cost options. Counseling Services case managers can give you specific referrals to individual providers based on your needs, insurance, and location. Call 541-346-3227 to schedule a case manager appointment. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.