Coping with Change | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Coping with Change What is it? Change can come in many forms. It can be moving to a new city, graduating, or any number of other things. Change can often be difficult to handle because it makes us feel uncomfortable and possibly vulnerable. The newness of situations can feel overwhelming and your emotional response may feel very intense. What can help? Remember past changes When going through a period of change, it may be helpful to remember that you have been through other changes. It may have been different, but you were still confronted with new situations and possibly similar reactions. This can be helpful to provide perspective and reassurance that the change will not last forever. Listen to your thoughts, feelings, and reactions We can often choose to reject our reactions to change and not recognize them. However, taking time to listen to how you are feeling or reflecting on your thoughts can provide insights that could help you during the adjustment. Talk to someone It may also be better to share your reactions with someone. Keeping fear locked up inside of yourself only helps it grow in intensity and impact. Putting your feelings into words can also help you analyze how you are feeling and understand your reactions to change. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.