Service and Administrative Activities | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu About Us Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ Service and Administrative Activities Service Activities Crisis Intervention After training in this area, including observations, interns provide clinical services that includes, single session counseling and crisis overage. Interns also provide clinical coverage during academic breaks. Interns learn: Crisis intervention Psychosocial interviewing Clinical disposition Referral skills Short-Term Focused Therapy Interns spend 16-18 hours providing psychotherapy and other services to the campus community. The client population represents a broad range of presenting concerns, multicultural identities, and diagnostic types. Interns are given priority in case assignment for training purposes to create as diverse a caseload as possible. As part of their training, interns are expected to provide diagnoses for ongoing clients after the fourth session along with a treatment plan. Supervision Provision Interns serve as the primary clinical supervisors for doctoral students enrolled in our practicum program for nine months. Supervisors periodically watch videotapes during times outside of their direct supervision. Supervisors monitor all of the clinical work of their supervisees, such as: Emergencies and crises Ongoing clients Clinical documentation and correspondence Consultation whenever supervisee has a clinical issue to address (e.g. initiating termination, initiating contact with "no show" clients, etc.) Exploring supervisee's professional identity Group Therapy Counseling Services offers 8-12 groups per term. Interns are able to offer groups in many areas of interest. In recent years, interns have offered the following groups: Creating Healthy Relationships (process group) Living with Loss Healing from Family Challenges Me Too Process Group Interns co-lead at least one group with a senior clinical staff member. Typically, the intern will co-lead the same group during fall, winter, and spring term. Later in the year, interns may have the option to co-lead a second group with another trainee. Outreach Programming Opportunities to: Deliver outreach presentations Offer developmental workshops Develop a year long consultation project focused on a particular student population Interns conduct a minimum of six outreach programs. They also participate in a critical incident and/or crisis debriefing if available. Interns also have the opportunity to develop a more in-depth and specific outreach program for a targeted group of students. Year-long consultation projects are typically with underserved communities. Past consultation projects have provided privilege awareness workshops with targeted groups, and worked with students who are a part of the Accessible Education Center, the International Student Office, the LGBTQIA+ community, and PathwayOregon, as well as Asian American, Pacific Islander, and Native Hawaiian students. Administrative Activities Staff Meeting This one hour, weekly or bi-weekly meeting of all CS staff includes general announcements, policy discussions, educational presentations, and activity planning. The meeting provides an opportunity to observe, process, and evaluate system issues relating to the Counseling Center and university environment. In addition, other campus partners may join staff meetings and discuss potential ways in which the CS can collaborate with them. Professional Development Interns are encouraged to become involved in workshops and professional meetings, professional reading, research activities, and the completion of dissertation requirements. Preparation Time Time is allocated to complete intakes, treatment plans, case notes, terminations; prepare for client and supervision sessions; and complete various administrative tasks. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.