Groups Offered | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Groups Offered Summer Drop-In Support Group Drop-In Graduate, Nontraditional, and Student-Parent Support Group Tuesdays; July 23, July 30, August 6, and August 13; noon–1:30 p.m. Location: Counseling Services, second floor University Health Services building Facilitators: Aaron Honn and Melissa Gomsrud This drop-in group is a safe, welcoming, and affirming space for all graduate and nontraditional students, including students who are parenting. Group members will be able to share and receive support in a space that acknowledges each person’s current concerns and life experiences while being able to navigate challenges within a strong and supportive community. Spring Term Drop-In Support Groups and Skills Groups A supportive space for students to connect, discuss, and build community. Students may attend as many of the meetings as they find helpful. Though a therapist will be present, please note that these services are not considered to be counseling, therapy, or treatment. They may, however, still be beneficial to the emotional well-being of participants. Anxiety Skills Lab — Drop-In Workshop Mondays, 2:00–3:00 p.m., with Kate Phillips Thursdays, 3:00–4:00 p.m., with Rachel Barloon Location: Counseling Services – Clinic D Feeling anxious? If so, you aren’t alone. Many UO students identify difficulties navigating stress and anxiety. This drop-in Anxiety Skills Lab aims to help students improve their understanding of anxiety while also teaching anxiety-management strategies so students feel more in control and better equipped to deal with challenges in their lives. Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT) Skills Groups Mondays, 2:00–4:00 p.m., with Reid Thompson Cañas and Celia Caffrey Wednesdays, 3:00–5:00 p.m., Wyatt Wing and Celia Caffrey This six-week group teaches skills to help students cope more effectively with intense emotions and difficult behaviors. Skills focus on mindfulness, distress tolerance, emotion regulation, and interpersonal effectiveness. Admission is rolling, meaning that students can join at any time, but are asked to complete a full six weeks of group regardless of when they join. Group members are required to have an individual therapist (either at the University of Oregon or in the community). LGBTQ+ Support Group Mondays, 3:30–4:45 p.m. Location: Willow Room, 219 EMU (weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 10); Rogue Room, 140 EMU (weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 9) Facilitator: Gonzalo Camp This LGBTQ+ drop-in support group is for students who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and/or other gender or sexual minority identities to explore issues related to sexual orientation, gender identity, and interpersonal experiences. This queer space is meant to provide a safe and confidential space to talk, explore, support, challenge, and just be present in your identity without having to explain, educate, or fear judgment. Swiftie Sessions Tuesdays, noon–1:00 p.m. Location: Counseling Services Facilitator: Kimberly Wasserman Connect with others who are moved and empowered by the music of Taylor Swift. Each session will begin by listening to a song and discussing how the theme resonates in our own lives. Friendship bracelet and other craft materials will be supplied for those who would like to craft while they talk. Black CommUnity Table Wednesdays, 1:00–2:00 p.m. odd weeks (weeks 3, 5, 7, 9) Location: Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center Facilitators: Dr. Cecile Gadson, Dr. Aris Hall, and Garrett Ross In collaboration with the Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center, Black CommUnity Table provides a space for Black** students and staff to connect for a weekly discussion related to the strengths and challenges within the community. The discussion varies weekly with topics ranging from campus climate and activism to mental health as well as popular culture. We welcome Black students and staff for an open dialogue where they can be their radical and authentic selves. This space will be part of Wellness Wednesdays. Black Joy Sessions: Finding Joy Within Wednesdays, 1:00–2:00 p.m. even weeks (weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10) Location: Lyllye Reynolds-Parker Black Cultural Center Facilitators: Dr. Cecile Gadson and Garrett Ross Black students, faculty members, and staff are invited to engage in activities that center Black joy including art, laughter, music, and movement. Black Joy Sessions create a space to center a celebration of Black culture, uplift, heal, and empower using a liberated narrative of the Black experience. This space is designed to be an easy, transformative, and love-infused space to create, express, and (re)claim Black joy. ¡Juntos! Latinx Support Group Thursdays, 1:30–2:30 p.m. Location: Carson Hall, Ramey Room Facilitators: Gonzalo Camp and Cameron Diaz ¡Juntos! Latinx Support Group is a drop-in processing and support space for Latinx students to share information and develop skills to tackle challenging situations such as academic stress, family challenges, self-worth, relationships, mental health concerns, and much more. Group members will be able to work through their presenting concerns, find community, and be empowered in a protected therapy space. Kuponya: Centering Black Healing Fridays, noon–12:45 p.m. (weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10) Location: Zoom — Register for the link Facilitator: Dr. Cecile Gadson This space is for Black-identified** students, faculty members, and staff to engage in guided soulfulness mindfulness, African-centered healing strategies, and dialogue to promote collective healing. We invite Black students, faculty members, and staff to connect, breathe, and heal in a space designed specifically for them. **Black, African, African American, Afro-Latinx, Afro-Caribbean, or the African Diaspora Spring Term Therapy Groups Creating Healthy Relationships* Mondays, 2:00–3:30 p.m. with Sarah Anderson-Wilk Tuesdays, 2:30–4:00 p.m. with Haidee Reff For students who are interested in learning about their relationship with themselves and with others in their lives. Members gain awareness about interpersonal patterns that they may engage in without even realizing it, and about how they are perceived by others. Members work toward improving self-confidence, appropriate and assertive communication, comfort with addressing conflict, and appropriate boundary setting. Trans, Nonbinary, Gender-Diverse/Expansive Support Group* Tuesdays, 2:00–3:15 p.m., with Shannon Stuart-Maver Fridays, 3:00–4:15 p.m., with Shannon Stuart-Maver and Mary Marchetti The Trans, Nonbinary, Gender-Diverse/Expansive Support Group is a place to build community, receive and provide support, share experiences, and find empowerment in the intersections between gender, life experience, and connection with others. Find support with TNBGD/E peers on identity, emotional health, relationships, self-esteem, academic stress, self-expression, and more. Sista Circle** Tuesdays, 3:30–5:00 p.m. Facilitators: Dr. Cecile Gadson and Hawi Wako Sista Circle is a processing and support group for African-American/Black-identified** womxn to work through concerns such as academic stress, self-esteem, family challenges, relationships, identity development, mental health concerns, and much more. Group members will be able to work through their presenting concerns, find community, and be empowered in a protected therapy space. Graduate, Nontraditional, and Parent Support Group* Wednesdays, 12:30–2:00 p.m. Facilitators: Melissa Gomsrud and Aaron Honn This group is a safe, welcoming, and affirming space for all graduate and nontraditional students, including students who are parenting. Group members will be able to share and receive support in a space that acknowledges each person’s current concerns and life experiences while being able to navigate challenges within a strong and supportive community. Living with Loss* Wednesdays, 3:30–5:00 p.m. Facilitators: Kristen Besler and Garrett Ross Navigating the loss of someone close to you can be an overwhelming and sometimes isolating experience as a college student. This group is aimed to help students navigate the grieving process to facilitate understanding and healing. Members of this group will have an opportunity to learn about the grief process, express and explore emotions related to grief in a safe space, feel connected to and supported by others experiencing loss, and gain a greater understanding of how grief and loss impacts them. Survivor Space* Thursdays, 2:30–4:00 p.m. Facilitators: Kimberly Wasserman and Cameron Diaz For students of all genders and identities who have had unwanted sexual experiences at any time in their lives. Members gain understanding of how sexual violence has impacted them, work on creating a sense of safety, grow their abilities to have meaningful connections with others, and address feelings that follow sexual violence. Healing from Family Challenges* Fridays, 11:30 a.m.–1:00 p.m. Facilitator: Kimberly Wasserman For students who have experienced significant distress or dysfunction within their family of origin (such as abuse, substance use, divorce or separation, etc.), which has impacted core beliefs about self and others, self-worth, and relationships with others. Focus is on increasing self-awareness, exploring impact of family experiences, enhancing interpersonal skills, and working toward personal goals. *Groups that require a pre-group orientation meeting **Black, African, African American, Afro-Latinx, Afro-Caribbean, or the African Diaspora What to expect from a pre-group orientation: You will be meeting with the therapists who facilitate the group for a 20- to 30-minute appointment. At this meeting, you and the group therapists will get to know each other, you will get information about the group and how it functions, and about the structure and format of the group. You will also be oriented to how you can receive the most benefit from the group through intentional participation. This is also an opportunity for you to be able to ask any questions you have about the group. Once you and the therapists have talked about your needs and your goals, a decision is collaboratively made about whether this group is the best fit for you. About Group Therapy Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.