Alcohol and Other Drugs | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Alcohol and Other Drugs Students at the University of Oregon can be tasked with making important decisions about their substance use on and off campus. Whether you’re curious about how much you’re using a substance, having difficulties in school and life because of your use, or seeking support in recovery from substance use—we’re here to help! UO offers many resources for alcohol and other drugs including prevention courses, clinical services, treatment referrals, and recovery support. Campus Resources Counseling Services – Meet with any number of our skilled therapists who can screen for substance use concerns and discuss options to help you make the informed decisions about your use. We also have a case manager on staff to assist with community referrals as needed. Same-day appointment scheduling is available. University Health Services – Stop by the pharmacy and/or speak with a primary care provider about your options for tobacco cessation . Call 541-346-2770 or visit your myUOHealth Portal. UO Required Prevention Course - An online prevention course offered through 3rd Millennium Classroom which includes the following four modules: Alcohol-Wise, Consent and Respect, Cannabis-Wise, and Other Drugs. Please contact UO Dean of Students for more information. Recovery Support The Collegiate Recovery Center (CRC) delivers peer support services to students experiencing substance use issues and provides opportunities for individuals to develop relationships within the recovery community. Through individual consults, group sessions, support meetings, and recovery events, the center helps students achieve their personal goals for recovery. The CRC welcomes all students at the University of Oregon regardless of their sobriety status. We recognize the many pathways by which recovery is pursued and value all forms of recovery. Whether students choose to attend 12-step groups, seek treatment in the wider community, or are interested in exploring lifestyle changes that reduce substance use, we can help. We are a member of the Association of Recovery in Higher Education, and our staff have lived experience in recovery and are Oregon-certified addiction professionals. To book an appointment, visit the CRC bookings page . How to Support a Friend It can be difficult to know when—or how-- to say something when you’re worried about a friend’s drug or alcohol use. Before you talk to your friend, ask yourself: How does it affect you? Have you ever had to take care of your friend because of their alcohol or drug use?  How frequently does it happen? Have you ever felt embarrassed or hurt by something they said or did while intoxicated? Do you worry about your friend’s use on a regular basis? How does it affect your friend? Does your friend drink in order to get drunk? Does your friend drink to escape from or to cope with problems or stress? Do they use drugs or alcohol to avoid painful feelings? Are drugs or alcohol affecting your friend’s academic performance? It can be helpful to prepare a list of specific problems that have occurred because of your friend's drinking or drug use. Keep these items as concrete as possible. "You're so antisocial when you drink" will not mean as much as, "When you were drunk, you made fun of me and were mean to me. You hurt me." Bring the list with you and keep the conversation focused. How to talk to your friend: Talk to your friend when they are sober. The sooner you can arrange this after a concerning episode, the better. Your message will have more impact while your friend is in the immediate aftermath than it will a week later. Restrict your comments to what you feel and what you have experienced of your friend's behavior. Express statements that cannot be disputed. Remarks like, "Everyone's disgusted with you," or, "Lily thinks you have a real problem," will probably lead to arguments about Lily's problems or who 'everyone' is. Avoid such generalizations. Convey your concern for your friend's well-being with specific statements. "I want to talk to you because I am worried about you," or "Our friendship means a lot to me. I don't like to see what's been happening." It is important to openly discuss the negative consequences of your friend's drinking or drug use. Use concrete examples from your list. "At the party I was left standing there while you threw up. The next day you were too hung over to write your paper. It makes me sad that these things are happening in your life." Be sure to distinguish between the person and the behavior. "I think you're a great person, but the more marijuana you smoke, the less you seem to care about anything." Encourage your friend to consult with a professional to talk about their alcohol or substance use. You can offer to find out more about the resources or go with them to an appointment. *adapted from Brown University Health Services, 2015* If you are concerned about the substance use of a friend or loved one, there are many resources available to help you become an effective ally to help them in the process of recovery. The National Institute on Drug Use provides information, suggestions, and resources to help you become an ally of someone facing substance use challenges. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) website provides information about treatment options, including SAMHSA’s National Helpline, 1-800-662-HELP (4357). This website also provides links to many other resources, including guides to help you talk with loved ones and information about addiction and recovery. Treatment Referrals Do you think substance use treatment may be the best option for you or someone else? Here are some options in the Eugene community. Serenity Lane 541-485-1577 4211 West 11th Avenue, Eugene, OR Willamette Family , Inc. 541-762-4300 149 W. 12th Ave. Eugene, OR 97401 Rapid Access Center (Part of Willamette Family Treatment Services) 541-762-4300 195 W. 12th Ave Eugene, OR 97401 White Bird Opioid Treatment Program 541-683-1641 CAHOOTS 541-682-5111 Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.