Eric Garcia, PhD | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Eric Garcia, PhD Assistant Director, Training Director Additional Roles: Senior Staff Psychologist, Latinx and Undocumented Student Specialist Pronouns: He/Him Education: BA, UC Davis (2012) MS, University of Oregon (2015) PhD, University of Oregon (2018) Professional Interests: I’m drawn to the areas of clinical training and supervision, working with underrepresented and marginalized student groups, and experiential and relationally focused individual therapy. I have specialized training and a strong interest in working with Latinx and undocumented, DACAmented, and mixed-status students as well as racial and ethnic minority students. Additional areas of interest include trauma (e.g. interpersonal violence, community violence, and early childhood trauma), career development, men’s issues, relationship concerns, family of origin issues, and LGBTQ+ allyship. Theoretical Orientation and Therapy Approach: My therapeutic approach is experiential/psychodynamic with a multicultural and social justice lens. I believe effective counseling begins by establishing a strong therapeutic relationship built on trust, authenticity, and acceptance. I strive to provide a genuine therapeutic foundation with the people I work with by being mindful of their cultural backgrounds and identities as well as the contextual factors that have influenced their lives. From this foundation, I collaborate with clients by exploring their emotions in vivo to better understand their met and unmet needs in relationships. Building a deeper connection and acceptance of such emotions, I believe, leads to greater fulfillment with others and ourselves. Supervision Approach and Model: I greatly enjoy providing training and supervision across different stages of training. I utilize an integrative approach to supervision with an emphasis on addressing power dynamics, personal and professional development, and multicultural and social justice issues. Like my therapy approach, I find that effective supervision requires a relationship based on authenticity, empathy, and trust. I strive toward empowering the people I work with both in our supervisory relationship and in the work they do with clients. I recognize that each therapist has unique strengths, growth areas, and lived experiences that influence their clinical work. My goal is to collaborate with them to help build on their strengths and growth areas as well as work with them to meet their goals, both as therapists and people. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.