Loneliness | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Loneliness What is it? There are different kinds of loneliness. Feeling lonely can come from a place of feeling as though you don’t have any friends, feeling unseen or unknown by those you know, or difficulty feeling "okay" when alone. Sometimes this feeling of loneliness comes from false beliefs about ourselves such as “if I’m alone, then something must be wrong with me.” Internalized views about happiness requiring people around us all the time can also lead to feelings of loneliness. What can help? There are a variety of strategies for addressing feelings of loneliness. You can look for new places to be involved and join campus activities. There are many clubs and organizations across campus that could fit one of your interests and provide opportunities to meet new people. In addition, you may want to address some of your internalized views or beliefs by exploring the discomfort we might feel when being alone. Evaluating how we feel about ourselves when we are alone or acknowledging your preference to be around one or a few people versus many can help us better understand ourselves and be more comfortable with being alone. Resources We offer a variety of services where students can explore cultivating healthy relationships. Browse our services here . One popular group therapy option is called Creating Healthy Relationships for students who are interested in learning about their relationship with themselves and with others in their lives. Learn more here. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.