Faculty and Staff Resources | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and Staff Resources Consultations If you need assistance in supporting a student with mental health issues, please call us for a consultation or choose office hours with Counseling Services to meet by Zoom with a Counseling Services leadership team member, available on Mondays and Thursdays from noon–1:00 p.m. during the 2023–2024 academic year. A consultation with our staff can help you identify the next steps, appropriate resources, and services for your student. Office Hours with Counseling Services Report a Concern Supporting Students in Distress As a member of UO faculty and staff, you have the unique position of observing students in distress and offering assistance. Sometimes, struggling students cannot or will not ask for help; your expression of concern could save an academic career or even a life. How to Support Infuse Mental Health into the Classroom We encourage faculty members to promote wellness and demonstrate support to student mental health. In its syllabus guidelines, the Office of the Provost provides standard university language for specific topics. You can make a difference by adding mental health and wellness to your syllabi. Add Syllabus Language Download these brief automatic slide decks created by Counseling Services. Use them prior to the start of class or incorporate slides throughout the class. More slide deck options will be created, so check back for new content. You will be asked to log in using your Duck ID. Download Wellness Slides The Teaching Engage Program has created this comprehensive Student Well-being Toolkit that offers a range of strategies, pre-made tools, and draft language to support student well-being in the context of their courses. TEP Student Well-being Toolkit Mental Health Support for Faculty and Staff Counseling Services is funded by student fees and as such does not provide counseling to faculty and staff. However, you can access counseling through UO's Employee Assistance Program. UO partners with Cascade Centers, Inc., to provide you with therapists and other resources. Employee Assistance Program Other Resources Suicide Concerns Campus Tragedies Disturbing Creative Writing Disruptive and Threatening Students Referring a Student Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.