Kristen Besler, PsyD | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Kristen Besler, PsyD Senior Staff Psychologist Pronouns: She/Hers Education: PsyD, clinical psychology, Pacific University (2017) MS, clinical psychology, Pacific University (2014) BA, psychology and sociology, State University of New York at New Paltz (2011) Professional Interests: I love my job as a therapist and especially enjoy working with college students. College is such a transformative time for individuals that can be both exciting and challenging. I find it incredibly meaningful to work alongside students navigating their unique journeys as we explore challenges, celebrate successes, and create meaningful change in order to help students live the life they want to live. I have particular interests in working with students experiencing concerns related to ADHD, relationships and interpersonal concerns, adjustment, family concerns, anxiety, and grief. Theoretical Orientation and Therapy Approach: I describe myself as an integrationist who frequently draws on ACT, humanism, interpersonal process, and dynamic theories to conceptualize clients. I incorporate interventions from a variety of theories to best serve the unique needs of the clients I work with. I find it important to frame therapy within the context of a client’s identities, cultural background and experiences, values, beliefs, and the systems in which the client exists. I conceptualize distress as coming from a disconnection between what a person values and what their current experiences are that can occur for a variety of personal, environmental, and systemic reasons. I believe that building connection (in all forms), flexibility, acceptance, meaningful living, awareness, and self-compassion are tools for change. When working with clients, I integrate both skills development and process-oriented interventions grounded in support, collaboration, curiosity, non-judgment, and flexibility; and I value humor, realness, and empowerment in my work as a therapist. I believe all humans are capable of creating a meaningful life and that my clients are experts in their own experiences. I view my role as providing guidance and support during the journey. Supervision Approach and Model: I approach supervision in ways consistent with my theoretical orientation and values as a therapist and supervisor. I see us all as unique humans and truly value the importance of creating a supportive supervision space that allows for expression of authenticity, connection, learning, growth, celebrating successes, working through mistakes, and—of course—having a good laugh. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.