Crisis Support | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Crisis Support Help for Yourself If you are experiencing an urgent mental health situation during Counseling Services business hours, call or come into the office for a variety of support options. In a life-threatening emergency, call 9-1-1 or go to the hospital emergency room. University Counseling Services Phone: 541-346-3227 Location: 1590 East 13th Avenue (across from Oregon Hall) After-Hours Support Our After-Hours Support and Crisis Line can help you when Counseling Services is closed. Call 541-346-3227. When calling after hours, please listen to the recording and press "1" when instructed. You will be connected with a mental health professional who will help support you and identify resources, if appropriate. Our staff works closely with these professionals to give you the best care. To connect directly to the three-digit, nationwide Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, call 988. Additional Campus and Community Resources Office of the Dean of Students Oregon Hall, Suite 185 541-346-3216 University Health Services 1590 E. 13th Ave. 541-346-2770 SAFE Resources Help for victims and survivors 24 hour Hotline 541-346-7233 Crisis Intervention and Support Full list of campus contacts and resources 541-346-3216 White Bird Clinic 24 hour Crisis Line 990 W. 7th Ave. 541-687-4000 Hourglass Community Crisis Center 24 hour Crisis Line 541-505-8426 Basic Needs Resources University Police 24 hours a day 2141 E. 15th Ave. Non-emergencies: 541-346-2919 9-1-1 Helping Someone in Crisis For emergency situations, call 9-1-1. This includes when a student: Is a victim of an attack or is in physical danger Appears to pose imminent danger to the safety of themselves or others Exhibits behavior that makes you feel unsafe If it is an emergency, call 9-1-1. You will be connected to the appropriate service. For non-emergency, but urgent situations, call Counseling Services for a consultation, or let Counseling Services know you'll be bringing a student over. This includes: Debilitating anxiety and/or depression Alcohol and/or drug abuse Suicidal thoughts or behaviors Violent thoughts or behaviors Possible psychosis or mania Community Care and Support Form Academic Concern Talking with Students in Distress If you're worried a student is at risk for suicide, it's best to ask directly: Have you been thinking about suicide? Are you in so much pain that you've thought about taking your own life? Asking these question will not put the idea into someone's head. Follow-up questions: Have you had these thoughts before? Have you ever attempted suicide in the past? How likely are you to act on these thoughts? Do you have a plan? Do you have access to the means? General Communication Tips and Reminders Convey a sense of interest and caring Empathetic reflection shows that you understand Avoid judgment or blame Always consult and involve others Don't promise confidentiality Err on the side of caution Normalize help-seeking, therapy Offer a 24/7/365 resource Follow up with the student Resources for PDX Students Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.