Coping with Tragedy | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Coping with Tragedy What is it? Tragedy comes in many different forms and may include serious illness, violence, death, or natural disaster. Although we hope you will not be faced with a tragedy, when they do occur, these events are some of the most challenging moments we face and can greatly affect our success and well-being. However, it is important to always remember you are not alone when faced with a tragedy. There are people and resources to support you. Support and Resources University of Oregon Police Department (UOPD) If you witness a traumatic incident or believe you may be the first to discover a traumatic incident has occured, please call 9-1-1 for an emergency or contact UOPD at 541-346-2919 for non-emergencies. University Counseling Center Tragedies can take a powerful toll on our mental health and test our coping limits. Therapy can help reduce the effects of traumatic stress and provide ongoing support following a tragedy. We offer individual and group therapy sessions as well as group crisis debriefings and workshops by request to support our community during moments of tragedy. Office of the Dean of Students The Office of the Dean of Students offers a variety of resources and support to students and our campus community. They are able to support and coordinate support for students, faculty, and staff following moments of tragedy. Contact the Office of Dean of Students to discuss how they can help. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.