Group Therapy | Counseling Services Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Counseling Services Menu Therapy and Services Therapy and Services Overview Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Groups Overview Group Therapy FAQ Groups Offered Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Events and Workshops Events and Workshops Overview Wellness Campaigns Suicide Prevention Mental Health Awareness Month Support a Student Support a Student Overview Helping a Friend Faculty and Staff Parents and Families Parents and Families Overview How Families Can Support Students Self-Care Self-Care Overview Common Concerns Coping Strategies Well-being Tools Be Well Blog Be Well Blog Overview Celebrating Women’s History Month: The Ladies of Psychology Dating and Relationship Non-negotiables Effectively Managing Emotions During Stressful Times Maintaining Mental Wellness While Studying Abroad Collegiate Recovery Center APA Doctoral Internship APA Doctoral Internship Overview About Us About Us Overview APA Team Service and Administrative Activities Training Activities Application Information FAQ About About Overview Confidentiality and Privacy Policy Documentation Our Team Practicum Program Student Advisory Board Diversity Get Help Now Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Counseling Services University Health Services Main navigation Therapy and Services Events and Workshops Support a Student Self-Care APA Doctoral Internship About Get Help Now Secondary Menu Getting Started Individual Therapy Groups Crisis Support Let’s Talk Psychiatry Referrals Substance Use Group Therapy Group Therapy Group therapy is a powerful tool for growth and change. In group therapy, six to ten individuals meet face to face to share their struggles and concerns with the facilitation of one to two group therapists. The power in group therapy lies in the unique opportunity to receive multiple perspectives, support, encouragement, and feedback from other individuals in a safe and confidential environment. These interpersonal interactions can provide group members an opportunity to deepen their level of self-awareness and to learn how they relate to others. Group therapy can be a safe and supportive place to experiment with new ideas and ways of being. For many emotional concerns, personal struggles, and relationship issues that college students face, group therapy is the most effective treatment modality. Counseling Services offers a wide array of groups to address the needs of students. We feel confident that group therapy is one of the most effective and beneficial treatments to address the common issues faced by our students. Getting Started If you need mental health support, the best way to access services is to call us at 541-346-3227. 541-346-3227 Summer Drop-In Graduate, Nontraditional, and Student-Parent Support Group Tuesdays; July 23, July 30, August 6, and August 13; noon–1:30 p.m. Location: Counseling Services, second floor University Health Services building Facilitators: Aaron Honn and Melissa Gomsrud This drop-in group is a safe, welcoming, and affirming space for all graduate and nontraditional students, including students who are parenting. Group members will be able to share and receive support in a space that acknowledges each person’s current concerns and life experiences while being able to navigate challenges within a strong and supportive community. Spring 2024 Groups Drop-In Support Groups and Skill Groups Anxiety Skills Lab — Drop-In Workshop: Mondays, 2:00–3:00 p.m.; Thursdays, 3:00–4:00 p.m. Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT) Skills Groups: Mondays, 2:00–4:00 p.m.; Wednesdays, 3:00–5:00 p.m. LGBTQ+ Support Group: Mondays, 3:30–4:45 p.m. Swiftie Sessions: Tuesdays, noon–1:00 p.m. Black CommUnity Table: Wednesdays, 1:00–2:00 p.m., weeks 3, 5, 7, 9 Black Joy Sessions: Finding Joy Within: Wednesdays, 1:00–2:00 p.m., weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 ¡Juntos! LatinX Support Group: Thursdays, 1:30–2:30 p.m. Kuponya: Centering Black Healing: Fridays, noon–12:45 p.m., weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 Therapy Groups Creating Healthy Relationships: Mondays, 2:00–3:30 p.m.; Tuesdays, 2:30–4:00 p.m. Trans, Nonbinary, Gender-Diverse/Expansive Support Group: Tuesdays, 2:00–3:15 p.m.; Fridays, 3:00–4:15 p.m. Sista Circle: Tuesdays, 3:30–5:00 p.m. Living with Loss: Wednesdays, 3:30–5:00 p.m. Graduate, Nontraditional, and Parent Support Group: Wednesdays, 12:30–2:00 p.m. Survivor Space: Thursdays, 2:30–4:00 p.m. Healing from Family Challenges: Fridays, 11:30 a.m.–1:00 p.m. Therapy groups require a pre-group orientation meeting. Learn More About Each Group Group Therapy FAQs Confidentiality How Does Group Therapy Work? Counseling Services offers a wide array of groups to address the needs of our students. Groups vary significantly in session format. These are general types of groups offered by Counseling Services. Discussion Spaces A supportive space for students to connect, discuss and build community. Students may attend as many of the meetings as they find helpful. Though a therapist will be present, please note that these services are not considered to be counseling, therapy, or treatment. They may, however, still be beneficial to the emotional well-being of participants. Structured Groups or Psychoeducational Groups Structured groups, also called psychoeducational groups, are somewhat similar to workshops in that each group is centered on a specific theme (anxiety, depression, etc.) and each group session is focused on a particular topic relevant to the theme of the group. Each group session usually consists of brief presentations by the group leaders, group discussions, and experiential activities. Process Groups or Personal Exploration Groups Process or personal exploration groups are typically much less structured as compared to a structured or psychoeducation group. There is not a specific topic for each group session, but some of the groups are focused on a particular theme—grief and loss, creating healthy relationships—or the group may be targeted to a specific group of individuals—women, men, or nontraditional students. Members are welcome to bring any issues to the group that they feel are important, and the primary focus of therapy in the group setting is on interactions among group members. Members are encouraged to give support and feedback to others, and to work with the reactions and responses that other members' contributions bring up for them. Combined Structure and Process Groups Some groups that we offer have elements of both structured and process group approaches. These groups may involve a combination of presenting information about specific topics and a discussion or sharing of personal issues relating to those topics. Get the Most Out of Group Therapy Processing through experiences and concerns as a group can be intimidating or overwhelming. However, it can also be very rewarding through the understanding of other perspectives and the support of others. There are simple things you can do to make the most of your group sessions. Be Open Each group is unique and functions slightly differently. Approach it with an open mind and identify specific goals for your experience. Trust the Process Sharing in a group setting may feel vulnerable, but it can help you to process your thoughts and feelings. Often these experiences are shared by group members. Listen Hearing what other people are going through can help you gain perspective of your own difficulties and see that you are not alone. Support Your Peers Offer your thoughts and support to the others in the group. These encouragements are powerful and allow members to connect more meaningfully. Work Together Each group is led by trained therapists who help guide and elicit ways for group members to support each other and strategize ways to address concerns. Be Accountable A group can keep you and others accountable. Helping each other stick to a plan and address concerns can be an important support between sessions and beyond. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Counseling Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3227 F: 541-346-2842 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.