Workshops | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Workshops Learn research-supported strategies and tips for academic success! Request a workshop Requesting Workshops Our most frequently requested workshops are described below. Each session is designed to last 50-minutes. If you’d like modifications to topics or timing, please indicate them in the Workshop Request form . We will contact you to confirm receipt of your request, and again when we’ve assigned a facilitator. Please submit requests at least two weeks prior to the desired workshop date. We will do our best to accommodate all requests. Note: Workshop requests are for organized groups (like departments, classes, and student clubs). If you are a student interested in learning about these topics, a Peer Academic Coach can provide guidance! If you have any questions, please contact Kenyon Plummer, Math/Science Learning Specialist at lplummer@uoregon.edu . Common Workshops Effective Time Management This session equips students to organize their time and find balance through prioritization, planning, and strategies to follow through on plans . Effective Learning Strategies In this session, students review the science of learning and explore strategies that complement the learning process . These include active study techniqu es , spaced practice , and the reasons they are effective. Test Preparation In this workshop, students will develop a game plan to prepare for an upcoming exam, midterms, or finals. Students will take stock of course content, identi fy specific study strategies, and create a study schedule. TAEC Overview Our overview covers the services TAEC offers and how to effectively engage with them. Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .