Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center | Engage. Connect. Learn. Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Strive for your best.  We can help. Our program helps UO students enhance their learning and success through tutoring, classes and workshops, individual consultations, graduate school test prep and supplemental instruction. Not sure where to begin? Contact us Book your 30-minute math appointments for Summer term! All other tutoring services resume Week 2 of Fall 2024! Math Tutoring TAEC is Hiring! Our student employees are essential in helping UO students enhance their learning and success.  Do you want to join our amazing team? Click the button to read the job description and submit an application! Read the position descriptions here. Tutoring Free tutoring to boost your learning and help you reach your academic goals. Support available for Math, Writing, Language, and Sciences in a variety of formats. Access your support! Strategies Enhance your habits & skills for academic success. Meet with a Learning Specialist, explore our handouts, or engage with activities through the Success in Learning Canvas page. Learn more here! Class Encore Get involved with small study groups for challenging classes! Class Encore study groups meet once a week outside of class so you can practice course concepts and strategies with your peers. Join a group today! Peer Academic Coaching Outline academic goals, refine and enhance your study strategies, and work productively through learning challenges during 1:1 sessions with a peer. Schedule your appointment! Test Prep You can’t cram for the GRE or MCAT graduate school exams.  Learn more about how our comprehensive test prep workshops can benefit you. Register early! REGISTER NOW! Workshops TAEC is excited to offer workshops by request! Click to see topics and descriptions.  Workshops are designed for a 50 minute presentation, but may be adjusted to 30 minutes on request. See the topics here! Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .