The Academic Success Hub | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Summer 2024 The Academic Success Hub is closed until Fall 2024. Check back in September for the schedule of support and hours. What's Happening at The HUB? Find academic resources and services to support your learning in the  Academic Success Hub, located in LLC North 123 ! No matter what course you’re in, you can find something to help you tackle your academic goals. Other Campus Resources Click on each module to learn more about other services available to students on campus. Math Library Drop-in homework help available to students enrolled in lower-division math classes, aimed at helping work through specific trouble areas. CMAE Tutoring CMAE Tutors are available for math, science, and writing support by appointment only.  Schedule is availble on their website. Braddock Tutoring Braddock Tutoring at the Lundquist College of Business provides tutoring and mentoring to business or pre-business students. SUPeR Chem Supervised undergraduate peer learning assistants (PLAs) offer review sessions to fellow students in general chemistry and O-chem. Full schedule is available on Canvas. Writing Central Writing Central offers journalism and communication students peer-to-peer writing support through one-on-one coaching sessions. Yamada Language The Yamada Language Center supports teaching and learning in a variety of language and interdisciplinary humanities departments. Drop-in Physics Help Center PhD Physic students are available to help all students in undergraduate physics courses. The Drop-in Help Center is located in  Price Science Commons B010. UO Libraries Research Help Librarians are available to provide research assistance in areas like refining a research topic, finding information, database usage, and other library-related needs. Statistical Consulting Service Drop-in help for all students with data, statistical programming, analysis, and visualization in R, Python, SPSS and more. Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .