Tutoring – Summer 2024 | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Tutoring Available for all UO students, we offer free tutoring services in Math, Writing, Language, and Sciences. Math Sciences Languages Writing Book your 30-minute math appointments for Summer term! All other tutoring services resume Week 2 of Fall 2024! Free , 30-minute in-person or remote appointments are available through Navigate for Math 101, 111, 112, 241, 242, 246, 247, 251, 252 and 253.  Once booked, you will receive a confirmation email for your scheduled session. Log in to Navigate with your Duck ID Click “Schedule an Appointment” blue button Choose “Tutoring and Academic Support” Select the course you need help in (Math 101, 111, 112, 241, 242, 246, 247, 251, 252, 253) Choose the day/time that fits your schedule. Schedule your tutoring appointment Writing Fall 2024 FREE, drop-in and appointment based writing support will be available to students at any stage in the writing process and across all academic disciplines. Asynchronous writing support will be available through the Online Writing Lab (OWL) beginning Week 2 of the term. Math Fall 2024 FREE, drop-in and appointment based tutoring will be available for students enrolled in many UO math courses including 101, 105-107, 111-112, 241-242, 243, 251-253. Science Fall 2024 FREE, drop-in tutoring will be available for students enrolled in many UO science courses including Biology, Chemistry, and Computer Science. Languages Fall 2024 FREE , drop-in tutoring will be available for first and second year French and Spanish.  Practice speaking or work on course content one to one with a tutor. Other Campus Resources Click on each module to learn more about other services available to students on campus. Math Library Drop-in homework help available to students enrolled in lower-division math classes, aimed at helping work through specific trouble areas. CMAE Tutoring CMAE Tutors are available for math, science, and writing support by appointment only.  Schedule is availble on their website. Braddock Tutoring Braddock Tutoring at the Lundquist College of Business provides tutoring and mentoring to business or pre-business students. SUPeR Chem Supervised undergraduate peer learning assistants (PLAs) offer review sessions to fellow students in general chemistry and O-chem. Full schedule is available on Canvas. Writing Central Writing Central offers journalism and communication students peer-to-peer writing support through one-on-one coaching sessions. Yamada Language The Yamada Language Center supports teaching and learning in a variety of language and interdisciplinary humanities departments. Drop-in Physics Help Center PhD Physic students are available to help all students in undergraduate physics courses. The Drop-in Help Center is located in  Price Science Commons B010. UO Libraries Research Help Librarians are available to provide research assistance in areas like refining a research topic, finding information, database usage, and other library-related needs. Statistical Consulting Service Drop-in help for all students with data, statistical programming, analysis, and visualization in R, Python, SPSS and more. Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .