Class Encore | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Class Encore Small study groups for challenging classes allow students to gather once a week outside of class to practice course concepts and strategies. Sessions are collaborative and engaging – led by Peer Leaders! See you in Fall 2024 - sign ups will start Week 1! Current CE Sessions CE Testimonials What is Class Encore? Class Encore sets up small, structured study groups for challenging classes. Groups meet once a week for 50 minutes, weeks 2-10 , and are FREE and open to ALL students enrolled in the class. Class Encore sessions give students the opportunity to: Ask questions Discuss course concepts Practice study strategies Collaborate to solve problems Groups are led by students who previously excelled in the class and maintain a high GPA. They attend the class, participate in weekly planning sessions, and lead the study groups in reviewing course concepts and study strategies. You can select ONE study group per course you’re interested in (ex: ACTG 211 at 11a on Thursdays and Math 241 at 3p on Fridays). You cannot select multiple study groups for the same class. Make sure that you put in your student ID on the second tab (labeled “Student”) On the last tab, you have a green button to confirm your registration – click that and you’re done! Fall Courses with Class Encore Study Groups: Biology Biology 211 Biology 213 Biology 214 Business Administration All BA 101 Sections All BA 211z Sections All BA 213z Sections All BA 215 Sections Chemistry Chemistry 111 – all lectures Chemistry 221 – all lectures Chemistry 223 Chemistry 331 Computer Science Computer Science 210 Computer Science 212 Economics Economics 201 Economics 202 – All Sections Economics 311 – All Sections Math/Statistics Math 101 – all sections Math 241 Stat 243z – All Sections Physics Physics 201 – all lectures Here’s what students think of our study groups: Really helps cement the different methods used throughout the course and allows me to review things I may not have thought to review before. Class Encore is definitely worth doing and is really beneficial to your overall learning of the material. It’s very helpful for reviewing everything I learned. It’s a fun way to clarify questions and get helpful information from someone who already took the class. Class Encore is so incredibly vital to my success as a stem student! I meet people and practice my skills which makes me more confident. Class Encore is valuable because it gives you time to focus on problems and how to solve them, specifically to help with exams and know how to deal with exam questions. Class Encore is a really great way to get increases exposure to the material. But you really only get out of it how much you put in so be prepared, engaged and ask questions. I love that Class Encore is able to recap the tough topics in my classes in a more comfortable small group setting. When I am lost in lectures, going to Class Encore helps me understand what the professor is talking about. It is a great resource that I wish more people used, and was available in more of my classes. I think that Class Encore has been a really good resource for me, and has helped me feel confident in the material, while giving me an opportunity to ask questions in a less intimidating situation. I also enjoy having a chunk of time dedicated to studying every week, and doing it in a group environment is helpful as I can help explain concepts and hear other questions CE was a good way to spend extra time on campus, I practiced a lot and feel very confident with my skills! Class Encore FAQ: Are Class Encore study groups in person or remote? All Class Encore sessions are being offered in-person.  In accordance with University of Oregon policy, masks are optional and welcome. Where are Class Encore sessions being held? Class Encore sessions are going to be held on campus. All locations are included in follow-up email reminders from the registration system and messaging from peer leaders to participants. Why should I join Class Encore? Class Encore sessions: allow you to meet and collaborate with new peers in the same course help you explore concepts in a variety of learning modalities can help you improve your end of course grade (historically, students who habitually participate see up to half a letter grade improvement compared to their peers) expose you to a variety of ways to study concepts – come build your toolbox of study strategies! What does a Class Encore session look like? Class Encore sessions differ from a traditional tutoring model. CE groups are collaboration focused and group work based.  What you may expect: Focus on concepts over problems. Will there be practice problems? Absolutely – CE Leaders will use those to help direct the discussion; just do not expect direct homework help. CE Leaders plan each session – they are there to help facilitate and keep the group moving forward. CE sessions will vary in their overall look! No two groups will have the same feel between Leaders or week to week. CE Leaders design activities that rely on participation and knowledge.  The CE Leaders know lots but make sure that the session is not about them!  CE Leaders work to elevate everyone’s knowledge using varied questioning strategies and activity designs. Is there an attendance policy? Data shows that participants get the most impact from continued participation in Class Encore sessions. Because our sessions can be extremely popular and in high demand, we ask that everyone make full effort to attend all sessions.  If we have participants that have excessive absences and our spots are full, we will remove students – but that doesn’t mean you cannot rejoin later! Contact Us Having difficulty registering?  Are you unable to access your Class Encore session?  Send a email to the Michael Gwynn . We will respond as quickly as possible and help troubleshoot your situation. Interested in applying to be a Class Encore Leader?  Read the position description and email the Class Encore coordinator – Michael Gwynn . For faculty that are interested in Class Encore support for your course, please connect with Michael Gwynn . Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .