Peer Academic Coaching | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Peer Academic Coaching Outline academic goals, refine and enhance your study strategies, and work productively through learning challenges during 1:1 sessions with a peer. Peer Academic Coach appointments begin Week 2 of Fall 2024! What is it? Make an Appointment Meet our Team! What is Peer Academic Coaching? Academic Coaching is a series of 1:1 meetings designed to enhance your learning experiences and academic well-being.  Peer coaches help you to identify, develop, and implement effective strategies that support your academic goals at UO. You can meet regularly with a peer coach for individualized support or schedule a one-time appointment about specific topics. Some common coaching topics include: Starting the quarter off successfully Effective study strategies (note-making, reading strategies, active studying, etc.) Time management and planning Improving and maintaining motivation and willpower Adjusting to campus Building focus and concentration Planning for tests and final exams Communication in college (emailing faculty, utilizing office hours, etc.) Coaching appointments are individualized, so discussions focus on your unique experiences, perspectives, and personal goals.  The aim of coaching is to help you reach your full potential. We can’t wait to meet you! How can Academic Coaching help me? Set Goals Identify exactly what you want to accomplish. Take Action Create a plan of action to achieve your goals. Learn Effective Study Strategies Discover new, research-supported strategies. Stay Accountable Make a commitment to your action plan. Time Management Learn ways to balance your life in and out of the classroom. Find Campus Resources Explore resources that can support your academic and personal goals. How can I make an appointment with an academic coach? To schedule an appointment: Log in to Navigate with your Duck ID Click “Schedule an Appointment” blue button Choose “Tutoring and Academic Support” Choose “Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center (Knight Library)” Choose “Peer Academic Coaching” Choose a time (use arrows for next week) and Location (In-Person or Remote) Enter a phone number and comments You can also click on the individual scheduling link for each PAC.  Find the links in their bios below! Meet our Team! Emily Andrade-Gonzalez She/Her/Hers About Emily Hi! My name is Emily. My pronouns are she/her. I’m majoring in Global Studies and Spanish with minors in Legal Studies and Latinx Studies. I plan to attend Law School with the goal of becoming an immigration lawyer. Outside of school, I love spending time outdoors, going on hikes and travelling as much as I can. As a first-generation student, I’ve come to know firsthand just how overwhelming and confusing adjusting to college life can be. In part, that’s why I’m excited to be in this position where I can help others in any way I can. So, please don’t hesitate to reach out 🙂 Make an appointment with Emily. Kailey Furino She/Her/Hers About Kailey Hi! My name is Kailey, I use she/her pronouns ! I am from the beautiful Portland area , and a second-year majoring in e ducation foundations with minors in special education and nonprofit management. My career goal is to be an elementary school teacher one day and plan to go through the UO Teach program . When I am not studying or in class, I love to paddleboard on the river, hike to waterfalls , have dance parties and tr avel . I am excited about meeting you so do not hesitate to make an appointment with me! Make an appointment with Kailey. Monica Snodgrass She/Her/Hers About Monica My name is Monica Snodgrass, my pronouns are she/her . I am a 4th-year student at the University of Oregon majoring in educational foundations and minoring in special education and interdisciplinary cognitive studies. This will be my 3rd- year as a peer academic coach, and I am excited for this upcoming year ! Fun facts about me: I am from The Dalles Oregon, enjoy baking in my spare time, and I collect snow globes from the places I have traveled! In my picture, I was in Seattle, Washington ! Yes, I do have a snow globe from there 🙂 Make an appointment with Monica. Patrick Henslee He/Him/His About Patrick Hi! My name is Patrick (he/him), and I’m a transfer student from Central California with a junior standing at UO. I’m majoring in English, minoring in Comparative Literature, and plan for a future in community college education. In my free time, I enjoy cooking, reading, dreaming about actually writing, watching movies, practicing bass guitar, or doing a list of outdoor activities too long for this already-too-long blurb. I’m always interested in connecting with new folks, so don’t hesitate to reach out for a meeting! Make an appointment with Patrick. Lucie Nortman She/Her/Hers About Lucie Hello! My name is Lucie (she/her). I am a fourth-year student majoring in Communication Disorders and Sciences. My goal is to go to grad school to become a speech pathologist. I transferred to UO last year, so I know a bit about the both fantastic and overwhelming experience of coming to a new place as a transfer. When I’m not in class or doing homework, I love to read, play music, stress-bake, be with my family (and cats!), explore outside, and craft. I am excited for the coming year. Please reach out, I look forward to getting to know you! Make an appointment with Lucie. Peter Weisel He/Him/His About Peter Hi there, my name is Peter Weisel (he/him)! I am a 4 th year biology major and biochemistry minor from Orange County, CA. In the future, I plan on working as a bioinformatician to research new cancer therap eutics via computational pipelines . I n my free time, I love baking muffins, walking through farmers markets, playing with cats, and volunteering for local organizations. Please feel free to reach out or schedule an appointment, I look forward to meeting you! Make an appointment with Peter. Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .