Learning Resources | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Learning Resources Here you’ll find a variety of resources for academic support. Connect with center staff, explore our handouts, and visit our Success in Learning site. Learning Specialists Handout Resources Learning Specialists What can a Learning Specialist help you with? Learning Specialists consult one-on-one with student s to support and elevate learning . Whether you encounte r habitua l studying challenges or desire to amplify your learning and college performance , Learning Specialists can offer you personalized guidance, expert advice on how to academically thrive, and connect you wi th relevant resources. Schedule your appointment! Frequently Asked Questions What is a typical learning specialist appointment like? The consultation is largely guided and informed by the student . While every appointment is different, they typically begin with students clarifying their goals. For example, a student might want to work on managing their time, understanding how to better structure a paper, or how to approach difficult conceptual questions in a chemistry course. The L earning S pecialist listens and then works with the student to identify and develop an action plan and other supporting resources on campus. Should I meet with the Study Skills Learning Specialist or a Peer Academic Coach (PAC)? PACs can work with students on specific skill s (such as note-taking, creating a weekly study schedule, or learn a new study strategy), while provid ing a UO student-perspective . T here is no wrong choice on who to schedule with ; however, c ommon reasons to visit the Study Skills Learning Specialist include: A student notices recurring challenges while studying and they aren’t sure how to address it. A student wants to holistically discuss their academic life. What is the difference between the Math and Science Learning Specialist and a Math or Science Tutor? Tutors focus on subject-specific concepts within a math or science course while the Math and Science Learning Specialist provides guidance on individual behaviors that foster effective learning . Common reasons to visit the Math and Science Learning Specialist include : A student studies many hours but isn’t seeing their efforts reflected in grades. A student wants to improve their problem-solving strategies to fortify learning. A student wants to identify resources to assist in their math or science course. A student is feeling overwhelmed by math or science course content. What’s the difference between the Writing Learning Specialist and a Writing Tutor? Writing tutors can provide support at specific stages of the writing process while the Writing L earning S pecialist offers greater expertise that support specific writing challenges or broad conceptual questions . Some common reasons a student might meet with the Writing Learning Specialist include: A student is having issues in multiple courses with writing assignments and needs help improving reading, writing, and research strategies across the board. A student wants an in-depth 45-minute session and could benefit from more advanced writing expertise. A student is planning an undergraduate thesis or a large-scale writing project and would like planning support. Resources TAEC offers students multiple ways to hone your study strategies, enhance your learning skills, and feel more confident managing your coursework. Take a look at the resources below and schedule an appointment with a Learning Specialist if you want to go more in depth on a technique or subject. Studying Beat the cram: plan more efficient study sessions with these helpful tools. Active Studying Tips Study Cycle PDF | Word Fillable Study Cycle Attention and Focus Spaced Studying Reading Try these tips and strategies for getting the most out of your reading. General tips Preview, Read, Recall (PRR) SQ3R Active Reading Method Writing From thesis writing to proofreading, enhance your writing skills with these resources. Proofreading Basics How Do I Get Started? Writing a Strong Thesis Writing Longer Papers Beating Writer’s Block Balance & Wellness Take care of your wellbeing with these research-based strategies for healthy learning. Taking Study Breaks Mindset Matters Time Management & Procrastination Stay on top of your work and avoid last-minute stress with our time management tools. Term Calendar Weekly Calendar Daily Planner Procrastination Awareness (fillable) Study Session Plan (fillable) Take Control of Your Time Test Preparation Don’t fear exam week: learn more about preparing for all different types of exams. Test Types and Test-Taking Strategies Test Anxiety Spaced Studying Finals Planner PDF | Word This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License . Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .