USP | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Undergraduate Support Program USP is housed within the Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center (TAEC), which provides academic support to all UO students.  USP students enter the University with a cohort of peers, participate in a unique year-long curriculum, and receive dedicated support throughout their first year to ensure that they excel through their transition into college. “Before I came to the UO, I’d been told I had great potential to succeed, but no one ever took the time to actually show me how to make it happen. USP helped me reach my potential. It’s honestly a privilege to be part of this program.” -Vanessa A. Servellon, USP student “My experience in the USP program was awesome. I picked up so many useful study tools and strategies that led to success throughout my undergraduate studies.” -Max Trette, UO graduate and former USP student USP students will… Join a small cohort of incoming first-year students. Arrive to campus early for a “Summer Bridge” program. Receive personalized support from the USP Success Team. Participate in a unique year-long curriculum – including a Fall Term First-Year Interest Group (FIG) – designed to support their success in the classroom and beyond. USP requirements: Attend mandatory USP Summer Bridge (9/23-24). Meet with assigned USP Academic Advisor each term. Complete required USP coursework each term ( UGST 199: Academic Foundations – a 1 or 2-credit elective course). Attend any other required USP events throughout the year. The USP curriculum Academic Foundations 1: Inside Higher Ed (Fall term) This course introduces students to the university, reviews effective college success strategies, and offers additional support for PSY 202 and WR 121 – co-requisite courses USP students all take as part of their Fall Term First-Year Interest Group (FIG). Academic Foundations 2: Making Major Decisions (Winter term) In this course, students will explore decision making – with specific reference to making decisions about majors and careers.  Students will explore their values and interests, find majors and careers that fit them, and discover purpose and relevance in their studies. Academic Foundations 3: Exploring Engagement (Spring term) In this course, students will explore engagement – that is, why and how to deepen their engagement with opportunities beyond the classroom. Through a combination of individual and group projects students will research an engagement opportunity of their choosing. Contact us For more information regarding USP requirements and program details, contact the Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center at engage@uoregon.edu or 541-346-3226. For questions about your application or file, contact Jennifer Corona, Admissions jennifer.admissions@uoregon.edu. NEW STUDENT CHECK LIST Welcome to the University of Oregon! We’re so excited you’ll be joining the UO community this fall. There are a lot of things to do before you start your classes, and we’ve created a list to make sure you don’t miss any important steps. This page is continually updated with next steps that you will need to take as you migrate to campus. ^ IMMEDIATE ACTION USP Welcome Survey We want to learn more about you and your UO goals! Plan to complete this survey prior to your advising meeting. Take the USP Welcome Survey ^ IMMEDIATE ACTION DuckID and IntroDUCKtion Claiming your DuckID is step one in the journey to being a Duck on campus! In addition, you should schedule your in-person program for IntroDUCKtion. We highly suggest doing this ASAP to secure your preferred date. Claim DuckID Register for IntroDUCKtion ^ IMMEDIATE ACTION UO Email Your University of Oregon email is our main channel of communication with you.  Set your account up right away so you don’t miss out on any important information! Set up email ^ IMMEDIATE ACTION Placement Tests You should complete these items before scheduling your advising session for fall classes. Math placement exam Foreign language placement exam(s) Placement Tests ^ STARTING IN JULY Meet with your USP Advisor You will receive an email invitation from your assigned USP advisor to schedule a remote meeting and help you choose classes . Students who haven’t completed the prior requirements will be invited to schedule an appointment after they do so. Check your personal email and UO email account! Check UO Mail Advising Resources Course Catalog – Browse all UO courses, all Undergraduate Programs’ requirements and degree plans, and Core Education Courses Class Schedule – Search for course options by term IntroDUCKtion Academic Plan Worksheet – To be completed during your advising session Instructions for registering for classes on DuckWeb can be found at the end of this worksheet ^ Starting in July Attend in-person IntroDUCKtion The UO is excited to see you in person and welcome you to campus! Check registration ^ COMPLETE BY JULY 31 Online Coursework Through an online course on community.uoregon.edu, all new students will be required to complete a small number of assignments throughout the summer to gear up for fall term. Community Canvas site ^ SEPT 23-25, 2024 USP Summer Bridge Make plans to attend the USP Summer Bridge. Regularly check your UO email account for updates. Additional Steps for New Students  Upload a Selfie for ID Card  Send Final Transcripts  Complete Financial Aid Requirements  Register for Housing  Download the Navigate App  Submit Vaccination Records Z Accept UO Terms and Conditions  Enroll in DUO Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .