About Us | Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Apply Visit Give Log In Search Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center A Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success About Us Home Academic Support Tutoring Class Encore Learning Specialists Peer Academic Coaching USP The Hub Resources Learning Resources Workshops Graduate Test Prep GRE Prep MCAT Prep Courses About Us Contact Information Campus Partner Resources Location and Hours 4th Floor – Knight Library 541-346-3226 Staff Grant Schoonover Director 541-346-3226 grantsch@uoregon.edu Kenyon Plummer Math/Science Learning Specialist 541-346-3226 lplummer@uoregon.edu Jenna Bertilson Summer Bridge Learning Specialist 541-346-3226 jenbert@uoregon.edu Kim Lilley Tutor Coordinator & Office Manager 541-346-3226 klilley@uoregon.edu Nicholas Forster Study Skills Learning Specialist 541-346-3226 nifo@uoregon.edu Hope Lorentzen Administrative Program Assistant 541-346-3226 hlorentz@uoregon.edu Michael Gwynn Class Encore Coordinator 541-346-2377 mgwynn@uoregon.edu Maile Speakman Writing Learning Specialist 541-346-3226 mjsp@uoregon.edu Program Contact Emails General questions, tutoring, study skills, and graduate test preparation: engage@uoregon.edu Questions about Class Encore and Supplemental Instruction: classencore@uoregon.edu Questions about Peer Academic Coaching: peeracademiccoach@uoregon.edu Resources for Campus Partners Referrals to Learning Specialists For an informational document on Learning Specialist consultations and making referrals, view the Working with TAEC Learning Specialists PDF or download the Working with TAEC Learning Specialists Word document . Syllabus Statements Add one of our statements about the Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center’s services to your syllabus or incorporate them into your messaging to students. General TAEC Statement The Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center (TAEC) offers all students resources to improve learning and enhance coursework. For details about tutoring, Class Encore, study strategies, graduate school preparation and more, visit TAEC: Knight Library 4 th floor, 541-346-3226, https://engage.uoregon.edu/ . Class Encore Statement Class Encore is a UO program through the Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center that offers free study groups for specific courses, facilitated by peer Leaders. Leaders have passed the course previously and work to craft opportunities for you to engage with your classmates in activities and problems, helping you hone your study practices and deepen knowledge in the course. Interested? Register here: https://engage.uoregon.edu/class-encore Undergraduate Education and Student Success Accessible Education Advising First Year and Transition Student Experience Undergraduate Curriculum and Academic Support Undergraduate Research and Distinguished Scholarships Student Success Initiatives Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center 1501 Kincaid St University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403 Office: Knight Library, 4th Floor P: 541-346-3226 engage@uoregon.edu Campus Resources UOmail | Duckweb | Canvas Maps | Directions News | Events Class Schedule Academic Calendar Follow Follow Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination .