Joint Campus Conference 2023 Apply Visit Give Navigation Jump to content Joint Campus Conference 2023 Search form Search this site Main Menu Home Schedule Conference Directions Call for Abstracts Submit an Abstract Keynote Speaker Home Annual Environmental Joint Campus Conference Oregon State University Portland State University University of Oregon The Joint Campus Conference (JCC) is an annual event that brings together graduate students and faculty from three programs: the Environmental Sciences Program at Oregon State University, the Environmental Sciences and Management Program at Portland State University, and the Environmental Studies Program at the University of Oregon. The JCC has traditionally been a forum for graduate students and faculty from each of the three programs to share their diverse research interests to a larger community of environmental scholars. Paper presentations and posters given at the JCC generate discussions that span the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. Paper presentations are 10 minutes each followed by five minutes for questions and discussion. Posters are ideal for presenting work that can be communicated effectively by the use of visuals. Posters will be displayed at the poster sessions and should be accompanied by a brief oral presentation. Four poster prizes will be awarded at the end of the conference. The JCC, which typically takes place during spring term, has been held each year since 1998. Prospective students are welcome to attend this event and learn more about the kind of research students are conducting at OSU, PSU, and UO. Call for Posters and Short Oral Presentations Submission Deadline: 5 pm on May 1, 2023 The University of Oregon is located on Kalapuya Ilihi, the traditional indigenous homeland of the Kalapuya people. Following treaties between 1851 and 1855, Kalapuya people were dispossessed of their indigenous homeland by the United States government and forcibly removed to the Coast Reservation in Western Oregon. Today, descendants are citizens of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde Community of Oregon and the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon, and continue to make important contributions in their communities, at UO, and across the land we now refer to as Oregon. We express our respect for all federally recognized Tribal Nations of Oregon. This includes the Burns Paiute Tribe, the Confederated Tribes of Coos, Lower Umpqua and Siuslaw Indians, the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde Community of Oregon, the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon, the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs, the Coquille Indian Tribe, the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians, and the Klamath Tribes. We also express our respect for all other displaced Indigenous peoples who call Oregon home. We thank the UO Libraries and Native Strategies Group for this statement on Honoring Native Peoples and Lands . Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination . Site Navigation Home Schedule Conference Directions Call for Abstracts Submit an Abstract Keynote Speaker Search form Search this site Take Action Apply Visit Give WP Admin Dashboard Themes Widgets Menus Skip to toolbar Log In Search