UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Expert on youth climate change anxiety to talk about solutions Author and researcher Britt Wray will deliver an Oregon Humanities Center talk, "How to Cope with Climate Anxiety: Saving the Earth and Saving Ourselves," in the Erb Memorial Union Redwood Auditorium at 5:30 PM on Wednesday, March 8, 2023. This Philly drag show tackles climate change -- on ice WHYY: Theresa May, professor of theatre arts at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. Study: Sunflower sea stars could help bring back kelp forests A team co-led by Aaron Galloway at the University of Oregon's Oregon Institute of Marine Biology (OIMB) and Sarah Gravem at Oregon State University produced the findings. Sea star die-off has had cascading ripple effects on Oregon marine ecosystem, study finds KGW8-TV: Aaron Galloway, associate professor of biology at the University of Oregon, collaborated with Sarah Gravem of Oregon State University, on study. We're Talking About Autonomous Vehicles the Wrong Way Dot.LA: Ben Clark, professor of public administration planning, public policy and management at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. EWEB awards $125,000 in grants to promote electric mobility KMTR-TV: David Reesor, director of transportation services at the University of Oregon, is quoted. Juliana vs. the United States: What's next? Mary Wood, Philip H. Knight professor of law and faculty director of the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center at the University of Oregon, is interviewed. The I3 research award program is now open for submissions Faculty members have until March 27 to submit letters of intent for the 2023 Incubating Interdisciplinary Initiatives award program, which funds new, multidisciplinary research projects. Reyes-Santos selected to plan prestigious national workshop Alaí Reyes-Santos is a professor of practice at University of Oregon School of Law and associate director of the Pacific Northwest Just Futures Institute for Racial and Climate Justice. 'Rights of nature' movement gains steam in Pacific Northwest The Seattle Times: Mary Wood, professor of law and faculty director of the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 Current page 14 Page 15 Page 16 Page 17 Page 18 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.