UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News This Cherokee congressman is for Trump – and Indian Country High Country News: Kirby Brown (Cherokee), associate professor of English and Director of Native American and Indigenous Studies at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. Lundquist College earns Top 5 Green MBA designation The Princeton Review’s Best Business Schools 2020 rank the UO Lundquist College of Business and its Oregon MBA #4 in the category of best Green MBA. Bohannan named Rippey Chair in Liberal Arts and Sciences The College of Arts and Sciences has named biologist Brendan Bohannan the James F. and Shirley K. Rippey Chair in Liberal Arts and Sciences. The prestigious appointment recognizes a faculty member who has both a distinguished research profile and a deep commitment to undergraduate education. States can learn from Native American wildfire management There’s no lack of proposals for managing wildfires more effectively: California Gov. Gavin Newsom recently signed 22 wildfire-related bills in one day. But what’s missing are perspectives from indigenous communities across North America, who have lived with fire for thousands of years. Volcanologist jams to the beat of the Earth's drummer UO earth scientist Leif Karlstrom wants to teach others about volcanoes through an ambitious initiative he calls the Volcano Listening Project that seeks to express and understand volcanic data through sound. People of color support climate action, but few get credit for it Assistant professor of advertising Troy Elias' study found evidence that Hispanics, more than blacks and non-Hispanic whites, believe there is more they can do to make a difference when it comes to climate change issues. Seven research teams get Resilience Initiative seed funding Sponsored by the Office of the Vice President of Research and Innovation, the Resilience Initiative supports existing collaborations and fosters the development of new, diverse interdisciplinary teams. The seed funding program funds two types of convening grants of up to $10,000: one that will bring together new faculty research teams and one meant to inspire collaboration with outside partners. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 47 Page 48 Page 49 Page 50 Page 51 Page 52 Page 53 Page 54 Current page 55 UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.