Ducks Give raises $1.8 million from close to 1,500 gifts | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Ducks Give raises $1.8 million from close to 1,500 gifts June 9, 2023 - 5:00am Twitter Facebook Ducks Give 2023, held this year on May 18, was the second-highest revenue year in UO history with a total of $1.8 million raised from nearly 1,500 gifts. It was also the second-highest number of challenge gifts, 94 in total. Supporters touched many parts of campus, with programs like the Environment Initiative and scholarships and student success receiving more than 100 gifts apiece, and many schools and colleges unlocking all of their challenge gifts. Donors also helped unlock the $100,000 UO Dreamers Scholarship Anonymous Challenge, one of the largest in Ducks Give history, and the $10,000 Presidential Challenge Gift for the Student Emergency Fund. With more than 30 areas of the university participating — including schools, colleges, museums, libraries and others — Ducks Give represents one of the biggest campuswide events of the year. It is also where many donors get their start as UO supporters. “Ducks Give is where a lot of people make their first gift to the UO,” said Erica Bruckner, associate director for annual philanthropy. “There is a really fun, all-comers feel to it, where a gift can unlock a much bigger challenge gift and people can support the things most important to them.” This year’s day of giving aimed to show students that philanthropy was for everyone and inspire them to get more involved.  Events led by students, for students, included a scavenger hunt, activity tables at the Erb Memorial Union, pizza and live music, and a special appearance by the Duck. “It was really great to see so many students turn out for our scavenger hunt, write some donor thank-you cards, and just have a chance to ask questions,” said Quaye Meadow, student organizer for the day’s events. “There was a lot of interest in learning more about how to make a difference in the world and in your community, and also a lot of students took advantage of the chance to grab a photo with the Duck.” — By Monique Danziger, Development Communications — Top photo: Students write thank-you notes in the EMU amphitheater Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus News Learn about the UO and Big Ten through a popular word game New Oregon Quarterly showcases UO’s move to the Big Ten conference Chasing gold at Hayward Field: The UO’s Olympic Trials legacy Oregon Bach Festival is ready to soar with ‘Ascending Voices’ UO launches Oregon150 Initiative for student success and growth All Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.