Sustainable City Year Program: Salem | Sustainable Cities Institute Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Sustainable Cities Institute Menu Home Sustainable City Year Program EPIC-Network EPIC-Network Overview History Framework Urbanism Next Research Research Overview Framing Livability Expert-in-Residence Project Briefs Publications Research Affiliates Research Reports Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Sustainable Cities Institute Main navigation Home Sustainable City Year Program EPIC-Network Urbanism Next Research Sustainable City Year Program: Salem We know this program leads to tangible real-world results. We believe in this program. Chris Hoy, Mayor of Salem After more than a decade, the Sustainable City Year Program will be returning to the City of Salem for a partnership for the 2023-24 school year. Oregon’s second largest city (179,605; 2022) and State’s capital is located in the heart of the Willamette Valley. Salem is a diverse community with well-established neighborhoods, a family-friendly ambiance, and a small town feel, with easy access to the Willamette riverfront and nearby outdoor recreation, and a variety of cultural opportunities. Salem is in the midst of sustained, steady growth. The city has been anticipating and planning for the impacts of climate change, among other important issues. The breadth of classes reflects Salem’s interests in a wide range of topics, with a course underway in summer 2023 and courses in journalism, architecture, geography, planning, and public administration planned for during the 2023-24 school year. Additional courses and disciplines will be added throughout the year as project and course matches are made. This SCYP and City of Salem partnership is possible in part due to support from U.S. Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley, as well as former Congressman Peter DeFazio, who secured federal funding for SCYP through Congressionally Directed Spending. With additional funding from the city, the partnership will allow UO students and faculty to study and make recommendations on city-identified projects and issues. Virtual Open House Project Summaries Reports Latest News UO Libraries Research Guide – Salem Final Report City Information: City of Salem Homepage About Salem Community Profile City Council Policy Agenda, September 2023 - May 2024 City Demographics Equity & Accessibility City Performance Measures Community Events List City Facilities: Library Salem Municipal Airport Maps: Street Classification Map Buildable Lands Map Plans and Reports: Our Salem, Comprehensive Land Use Plan Update Salem in Motion, Transportation System Plan Update Climate Action Plan Comprehensive Parks System Master Plan Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan, 2023 Update Economic Development: Downtown Webpage Downtown Strategic Action Plan Housing: Housing Needs Analysis Housing & Shelter Middle Housing Land Use: Land Use & Zoning Land Use Applications Parks and Open Space: City Parks and Recreation Webpage Trails Transportation: Mobility Options Public Works: Capital Improvements Public Works Design Standards Standard Construction Specifications Branding: Branding Style Guide Programs Sustainable City Year Program Urbanism Next EPIC-Network Additional Information SCI in the News Staff Directory Jobs at SCI Collaborators Donate Sustainable Cities Institute 1209 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1209 P: 541-346-3582 sci@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.