Seattle Conservation Leader Appointed to State Recreation and Conservation Board - RCO Skip to content PRISM Login Boards Project Search Search for: Washinton State Recreation and Conservation Office logo Grants Grant Details Grant Programs Grants Overview Find a Grant Apply for a Grant Grant Requirements Protecting Cultural Resources Grant Manuals Evaluation Post Award Information Contact a Grants Manager ALEA BAFBRB BFP BIG CFP COAF ESRP FARR FFFPP LPM LWCF LWCF-ORLP NCLI NOVA - Education NOVA - Trails OLG PRA RTP SALMON - PSAR WCRRI WWRP - Farmland WWRP - Forestland WWRP - Habitat WWRP - Recreation YAF What We Do Our Priorities Salmon and Orca Recovery Recreation and Conservation Invasive Species Projects Success Stories Project Search Policy and Rulemaking Overview Recently Adopted Current Activities Reports and Studies Get Involved Get Involved Advisory Committees RCO always is looking for advisors to review and evaluate grant applications Policy Feedback RCO accepts public input via board meetings and public comments during the rule-making process About Us About Us Budget Mission and Strategic Plan Boards Employment and Contracts News Read the latest RCO news. Contact Us Contact Us Get in touch with RCO! Find a Staff Member General Staff Directory Grants Manager Public Records Request Washinton State Recreation and Conservation Office logo RCO About Us News Seattle Conservation Leader Appointed to State Recreation and Conservation Board Seattle Conservation Leader Appointed to State Recreation and Conservation Board For Release: May 2, 2023 OLYMPIA–Gov. Jay Inslee has appointed Kathleen “Kitty” Craig, a national program director for The Wilderness Society, to the Washington State Recreation and Conservation Funding Board. The board awards about $200 million in grants every other year to tribes, nonprofits and government agencies to create parks, trails and other outdoor recreation opportunities. The board also awards grants to conserve the state’s natural resource heritage by protecting working farms and forests and wildlife habitat, including places inhabited by plants and animals found nowhere else in the world. As director for the Urban to Wild program, Craig helps lead The Wilderness Society’s efforts to advance equitable access to nature in urban communities across the country by eliminating barriers and fostering connections to the outdoors and public lands. “Kitty’s experience in helping communities develop conservation strategies will be an asset to the board,” Gov. Inslee said. “With limited resources, it’s important state agencies make strategic and innovative decisions to conserve the lands that help make Washington such a great state for people to live, work and play.” “We’re very excited to have Kitty join the board,” said Ted Willhite, board chair. “Her background in land conservation, public policy and community engagement will help the board in its efforts to ensure that all communities have access to these important state grants.” The Wilderness Society is a national nonprofit land conservation organization founded in 1935 that works to protect America’s wild places. Craig joined The Wilderness Society in 2010, working to conserve the wild lands and waters of the north Cascade Mountains. Her achievements include the protection and start-up of the state’s first community forest in the Teanaway Valley and permanent protection of the Methow Valley headwaters from industrial mining. She became advocacy director for urban communities in 2021 and a year later took the job as Urban to Wild director, where she oversees a national initiative to ensure all communities have meaningful access to nature and enjoy the many benefits parks and public lands provide through community-driven policy and advocacy. Before joining The Wilderness Society, Craig led The Trust for Public Land’s Conservation Vision program in Washington state, where she worked with communities to develop collaborative action plans that balanced community recreation, conservation and development needs, leading to the conservation of parks and open space in places such as the Wenatchee Valley and San Juan Islands. Craig has a bachelor of arts degree from Whitman College and master of arts degree in community and regional planning from the University of Oregon. She is on the boards of directors for the Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust and the Stewardship Partners and serves on various advisory committees for public agency grant programs. Craig lives in Seattle. Her term runs through 2025. Sign up for e-mail Sign up Stay connected Access Washington Accessibility Policy Nondiscrimination Statement Privacy Policy Public Records Request Web Content Policy Staff Resources © Copyright RCO. All Rights Reserved. PRISM Down PRISM, RCO’s database for grant project management, is unavailable. Thank you for your patience as we work to get it back online. × Newsletter Options Notice: JavaScript is required for this content. × Grant Deadlines Updated Some upcoming grant application deadlines may be adjusted due to the government shutdown. Find deadline updates on the corresponding grant pages. ×