Energy Department announces largest-ever investment in 'carbon removal' | AP News Menu Menu World U.S. Election 2024 Politics Sports Olympics Entertainment Business Science Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography Climate Health Tech Lifestyle Religion AP Buyline Personal Finance AP Buyline Shopping Press Releases My Account ... World Israel-Hamas War Russia-Ukraine War Global elections Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East China Australia U.S. Election 2024 Delegate Tracker AP & Elections Global elections Politics Joe Biden Election 2024 Congress Sports 2024 Paris Olympic Games MLB NBA NHL NFL Soccer Golf Tennis Auto Racing Olympics Entertainment Movie reviews Book reviews Celebrity Television Music Business Inflation Financial Markets Business Highlights Financial wellness Science Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography Climate Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Religion AP Buyline Personal Finance AP Buyline Shopping Press Releases My Account Search Query Submit Search Show Search World Israel-Hamas War Russia-Ukraine War Global elections Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Middle East China Australia U.S. Election 2024 Delegate Tracker AP & Elections Global elections Politics Joe Biden Election 2024 Congress Sports 2024 Paris Olympic Games MLB NBA NHL NFL Soccer Golf Tennis Auto Racing Olympics Entertainment Movie reviews Book reviews Celebrity Television Music Business Inflation Financial Markets Business Highlights Financial wellness Science Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography Climate Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Religion AP Buyline Personal Finance AP Buyline Shopping Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Los Angeles earthquake Haason Reddick trade AP Top 25 Israel-Hamas war Election 2024 Climate Energy Department announces largest-ever investment in ‘carbon removal’ FILE - Emissions rise from the smokestacks at the Jeffrey Energy Center coal power plant as the suns sets, near Emmett, Kan., Sept. 18, 2021. (AP Photo/Charlie Riedel, File) By ISABELLA O’MALLEY Share Share Copy Link copied Email Facebook X Reddit LinkedIn Pinterest Flipboard Print The Energy Department announced Friday it is awarding up to $1.2 billion to two projects to directly remove carbon dioxide from the air in what officials are calling the largest investment in “engineered carbon removal” in history. The process, known as direct air capture, does not yet exist on a meaningful scale and could be a game changer if it did and were economical. “If we deploy this at scale, this technology can help us make serious headway toward our net zero emissions goals while we are still focused on deploying more clean energy at the same time,” Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said in a press conference call. Project Cypress will be built in Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana. South Texas DAC is planned for Kleberg County, Texas. Each claims it will capture up to one million metric tons of carbon dioxide per year initially. A representative of the Texas project said it will scale up to remove 30 million metric tons per year once fully operational. No date was given. Officials said the projects will create 5,000 jobs for local workers and people formerly employed in the fossil fuel industry. RELATED COVERAGE Evacuees from resort town in the Canadian Rockies can return Friday after wildfire, officials say Amazon rainforest stores carbon for the world, but this carbon sink is at risk, a study finds Texas launches new investigation into Houston’s power utility following deadly outages after Beryl Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards, who was also on the conference call, said his state, with its experience in petrochemical manufacturing, density of pipelines and geology, is best suited for projects that tackle carbon. The announcement shows the big bets the Biden administration is making on technologies that capture carbon dioxide from the air and store it underground to address climate change. It’s this gas more than any other that is heating the planet. Several scientists agreed with making some investment in direct air capture. Claire Nelson, a postdoctoral research scientist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory said moving away from fossil fuels and producing the things we need without emissions are the most important ways to address climate change. But the scale of change needed makes direct air capture necessary as another tool. “In order to have direct air capture ready at the scale we need it by 2050, we need to invest in it today,” she said. Tim Lieuwen, executive director of the Strategic Energy Institute at the Georgia Institute of Technology agreed that the pollution from some kinds of heavy industry will need to be addressed through technologies like direct air capture. “We need to look at reducing emissions as quickly as practically possible,” said Melissa Lott, director of research for the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. “This means more efficiency, more clean energy, and the use of other technologies including carbon management,” she said. Shannon Boettcher, professor of chemistry at the University of Oregon, said direct air capture technologies are not yet cost effective, and are worth some investment in research and development. Deep in the Amazon, Brazil is building a complex of towers arrayed in six rings poised to spray carbon dioxide into the rainforest. The aim is to understand how the world’s largest tropical forest responds to climate change. (May 23) (AP Video Fernando Crispim) But some others say the technology for sucking carbon dioxide out of the air is still in its infancy, funding it is misguided, and the focus should be on eliminating emissions. “This money could be so much better spent on actual climate solutions that would be cutting emissions from the get go,” said Jonathan Foley, executive director of Project Drawdown, a group that publicizes climate solutions. He cited energy efficiency and lowering emissions from agriculture, transportation, electricity generation as better approaches. “What worries me and a lot of other climate scientists is that it potentially creates a fig leaf for the fossil fuel industry ... the idea that we can keep burning stuff and remove it later,” Foley added. It’s still unclear what role direct air capture will play in lowering emissions. Established technologies like solar, wind, and batteries continue to grow fast. ______ Associated Press climate and environmental coverage receives support from several private foundations. See more about AP’s climate initiative here . The AP is solely responsible for all content. The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2024 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook