UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Lauren Ponisio named Early Career Fellow by the Ecological Society of America Lauren Ponisio, assistant professor of biology at the University of Oregon, was selected as an ESA Early Career Fellow early this month. Researchers devise seawater-resilient bipolar membrane electrolyzer for turning seawater into hyrdrogen Green Car Congress: Grace Lindquist and Lihaokun Chen, graduate employees, and Shannon Boettcher, professor of chemistry and biochemistry at the University of Oregon, are study coauthors. EPA funding supports new center for wildfire smoke research Senators Jeff Merkley and Ron Wyden helped secure federal funding to launch the new Center for Wildfire Smoke Research and Practice at the University of Oregon. Architectural programmes with a specific focus on sustainability and the future of Architecture Study International: The University of Oregon's Department of Architecture is featured as a leader in environmental design and sustainability with a special focus on spatial and climate justice. UO students co-host APRU global climate change simulation The University of Oregon is co-hosting the Student Global Climate Change Simulation, a role-playing exercise sponsored by the Association of Pacific Rim Universities in which students form transnational,  interdisciplinary teams and engage in mock-UN climate negotiations. University of Oregon launches new smoke research center Wildfire Today: The new Wildfire Smoke Research and Practice Center will be a hub for applicable research on ways to prevent wildfire hazards while building resilience to them. New institute will help make communities more resilient The new Institute for Resilient Organizations, Communities, and Environments is a multidisciplinary effort that will build upon the work of  University of Oregon's longstanding Institute for a Sustainable Environment. New wildfire smoke research hub will open at the University of Oregon KGW-TV: The Wildfire Smoke Research and Practice Center at the University of Oregon is launching thanks to an $800,000 federal grant. UO, Pakistan university partner to help confront climate change The University of Oregon is building on an existing partnership with Karakoram International University to accelerate both institutions' research and teaching capacity around climate change while promoting community resilience to climate hazards in Gilgit-Baltistan, Pakistan. Senators Wyden and Merkley secure $800-thousand for wildfire research center KVAL-13: Critical funding from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will help the University of Oregon launch the Center for Wildfire Smoke Research and Practice. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Current page 11 Page 12 Page 13 Page 14 Page 15 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.