UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News A fight brewing in Oregon could decide how we heat our homes and cook The Washington Post: Victoria Whalen, Sustainable Land Use Project fellow with the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center and student at the University of Oregon School of Law, is quoted. Redlining and Hotter Neighborhoods: How Racist Housing Policies Created Urban Heat Islands Teen Vogue: Victoria Whalen, a second-year law student and research fellow with the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center at the University of Oregon, is quoted. Forums will explore changes to the campus heating system A task force assessing options for transforming the heating infrastructure on the University of Oregon's Eugene campus is seeking feedback from the community. Institute Spearheads Racial, Climate Justice Projects in Pacific Northwest Insight Into Diversity: The Pacific Northwest Just Futures Institute for Climate & Racial Justice, housed in the University of Oregon's Center for Environmental Futures, is featured. Art installation rises from the ashes of devastating wildfires For her latest installation of "Ghost Forest," a photograph series inspired by 2020 wildfires in Oregon, local artist Sarah Grew is partnering with Jon Bellona, a senior instructor of audio production at the University of Oregon School of Music and Dance, to create a unique exhibit in the LaVerne Krauss Gallery on campus. OHAZ builds disaster-resilient infrastructure network Natural hazards monitoring at the Oregon Hazards Lab will help keep communities safe while advancing resiliency research. UO series will focus on creating a just and livable future Join the University of Oregon's Environment Initiative and partners across campus for "UO by Environmental Justice," an event series focused on environmental justice and the responsibility of higher education to contribute to a just and livable future. EPA Puts the Pedal to the Metal to Electrify Transportation Sierra Magazine: Greg Dotson, associate professor of law and faculty director of the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center's Energy Law & Policy Project at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. Fusing Art and Science to Save the Seas Stacy Alaimo, professor of English and environmental studies at the University of Oregon, is a leader in "blue humanities," combining the critical study of the human world with marine science and ocean ecologies. San Francisco could become first U.S. city to have 2 driverless taxi services by the end of the year Fortune: Nico Larco, director of the Urbanism Next Center at the University of Oregon, is quoted as a transportation expert. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Current page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 Page 14 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.