Time Space Existence show spotlights solutions for the planet Magazine Awards Jobs Events Guide Showroom School Shows Courses Follow: Architecture Interiors Design Technology Series Features Interviews Opinion News Lookbooks Talks Videos Podcasts About Comments Newsletters Preferences Submit a story Advertise Privacy notice Contact Dezeen Magazine dezeen-logo dezeen-logo Next story clear Follow: Series Interviews Opinion Talks Videos Newsletters Architecture Interiors Design Technology Magazine Awards Jobs Events Guide Showroom School Shows Courses Search results: Read more: Refine your search: Cats Time Space Existence show in Venice spotlights solutions for a planet under pressure Share: Dezeen staff | 25 May 2023 Promotion: prefabricated folding pods for housing displaced people are among the projects on display at the European Cultural Centre's (ECC) biennial architecture exhibition that opened in Venice this month. Titled Time Space Existence , the group show presents work by architects, designers, artists, academics and photographers from 52 different countries that have been created in response to the climate emergency. The group show presents work by architects, designers, artists, academics and photographers. Image: architectural project by Coburg University of Applied Sciences and Arts. Image by Federico Vespignani The 217 projects presented explore a variety of areas of focus, from the environment and urban landscape to the unfolding conversations on innovation, reuse, community and inclusion. In response to climate change, exhibited projects investigate new technologies and construction methods that reduce energy consumption through circular design and develop innovative, organic and recycled building materials. The images presented in the exhibition explore climate change. Image: Hipnerotópolis, The city of love dreams by Pedro Friedeberg. Image by Federico Vespignani Participants also address social justice by presenting living solutions envisioned for displaced communities and minorities, while others examine the tensions between the built urban environment and the nature surrounding it, identifying opportunities for coexistence. For example, the Norman Foster Foundation (NFF) and Holcim present the Essential Homes Research Project, a proposal to provide displaced people with safe, comfortable and dignified homes. The Norman Foster Foundation (NFF) and Holcim present the Essential Homes Research Project. Image by Chiara Becattini Designed by the Norman Foster Foundation and built with Holcim sustainable solutions, the project opens the conversation on how to make sustainable buildings accessible to everyone. Architects Rafi Segal and Susannah Drake examine the existential threat that climate change poses on communities in Miami, studying the legacy of racial segregation in South Florida. Named the Angelus Novus Vault, the construction aimed to demonstrate "new possibilities for sustainable construction". Image by Federico Vespignani To tackle the issue of people displacement due to political reasons or natural disasters, architecture studio Hariri & Hariri have designed a prefabricated folding POD that is affordable and secure, whereas the Civic Data Design Lab at MIT collaborated with the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the Migration Policy Institute (MPI) to outline interactive visualisations that illustrate critical findings about the root causes of migration. Also on show is Transpecies Design by Adrian Parr at the Univeristy of Oregon, which is described as an investigation into "an other-than-anthropocentric approach to regenerating, restoring, reinvigorating and replenishing the natural environment". Rather than focusing the design goal on the human experience, Parr's project takes into account the relationship between plants, humans and animals when establishing the end design goal. The University of Stuttgart developed filigree concrete structures. Image by Matteo Losurdo Addressing the need to drastically reduce resource consumption, emissions and waste in the construction industry, the University of Stuttgart's filigree concrete structures demonstrate how lightweight constructions can contribute to the decarbonisation of the building industry while ETH Block Research Group in collaboration with Digital Building Technology, explore on-site prefabrication using by-product material. Also on display is a self-supporting vault construction technique developed by Princeton University's Form Finding Lab and the University of Bergamo. Named the Angelus Novus Vault, the piece aimed to demonstrate "new possibilities for sustainable construction". The show presents 217 projects. Image: Gerber Architekten. Image by Federico Vespignani "With our architecture exhibition we continue the research on the fundamental topics of time, space and existence," Rachele De Stefano, head of architecture at ECC Italy explained. "With this exhibition we hope to provide everyone with the opportunity to discover different voices and perspectives on architecture, while also raising awareness on the fundamental issues in contemporary architecture nowadays." The event rungs between 20 May to 26 November. Image: Transpecies Design, College of Design at University of Oregon. Curated by Adrian Parr This year's edition of Time Space Existence will run between 20 May to 26 November 2023, at Palazzo Bembo, Palazzo Mora and the Marinaressa Gardens, in Venice, Italy. To learn more about the European Cultural Centre's exhibition visit its website . Photos by Federico Vespignani, Matteo Losurdo and Chiara Becattini. Time Space Existence takes place from 20 May to 26 November 2023 at various locations across Venice, Italy. See Dezeen Events Guide for an up-to-date list of architecture and design events taking place around the world. Partnership content This article was written by Dezeen for the European Cultural Centre. Find out more about Dezeen partnership content here . Read more: Venice Venice Architecture Biennale Promotions Subscribe to our newsletters Your email address New! Dezeen Showroom New Releases A quarterly newsletter rounding up a selection of recently launched products by designers and studios, published on Dezeen Showroom. Dezeen Debate Our most popular newsletter, formerly known as Dezeen Weekly, is sent every Tuesday and features a selection of the best reader comments and most talked-about stories. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and breaking news. Dezeen Agenda Sent every Thursday and containing a selection of the most important news highlights. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and invitations to Dezeen events. Dezeen Daily A daily newsletter containing the latest stories from Dezeen. Dezeen In Depth Sent on the last Friday of every month, Dezeen in Depth features original feature articles, interviews and opinion pieces that delve deeper into the major stories shaping architecture and design. Dezeen Jobs Daily updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. Dezeen Jobs Weekly Weekly updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. Dezeen Awards News about our Dezeen Awards programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. Dezeen Events Guide News from Dezeen Events Guide, a listings guide covering the leading design-related events taking place around the world. Plus occasional updates and invitations to Dezeen events. Dezeen Awards China News about our Dezeen Awards China programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. We will only use your email address to send you the newsletters you have requested. We will never give your details to anyone else without your consent. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email, or by emailing us at [email protected] . For more details, please see our privacy notice . Thank you! You will shortly receive a welcome email so please check your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of every newsletter. Share and comment Share: Leave a comment More Architecture Interiors Design Technology More Promotions Carsten Höller adds Doubt Staircase to 18th century Venetian ... Israel will not participate in 2025 Venice Architecture Biennale Venice Architecture Biennale reveals theme for 2025 edition UK-Kenya team to turn British Pavilion "inside out" for 2025 ... "Ratti's Venice biennale appointment marks a screeching U-turn" Carlo Ratti to curate Venice Architecture Biennale in 2025 New York Institute of Technology participates in Venice ... Għallis exhibition suggests alternative to Malta's ... Comments Visit our comments page | Read our
comments policy Most popular Most commented 1 "The Olympic Village air-conditioning debacle is a perfect illustration of the barriers to climate action" 2 The venues set to host the 2028 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles 3 Gardiner Architects creates Heather's Off-Grid House on Australian farm 4 Kacper Motyka designs cylindrical sex-centred furniture to elevate intimacy 5 Lissoni Architecture designs moody interiors for Hotel AKA NoMad 1 "Building 1.5 million homes is not the same as solving the housing crisis" 2 Philip Johnson's Glass House guest annexe reopens after restoration 3 Neri&Hu animates gridded Taipei apartment block with arched screens 4 KPF set to cut terraces into Foster + Partners' HSBC skyscraper 5 Madam Architectuur updates Belgian bungalow with red-timber cladding Pelli Clarke & Partners completes skyscraper "imbued with lightness" in Chicago Alarquitectos lines Lisbon apartment with colour-blocked walls and pine wood Jumbo designs fortune cookie-shaped chair for Heller Dream completes mass-timber office building for Athletes' Village in Paris Subscribe Subscribe to our newsletters Your email address New! Dezeen Showroom New Releases A quarterly newsletter rounding up a selection of recently launched products by designers and studios, published on Dezeen Showroom. Dezeen Debate Our most popular newsletter, formerly known as Dezeen Weekly, is sent every Tuesday and features a selection of the best reader comments and most talked-about stories. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and breaking news. Dezeen Agenda Sent every Thursday and containing a selection of the most important news highlights. Plus occasional updates on Dezeen’s services and invitations to Dezeen events. Dezeen Daily A daily newsletter containing the latest stories from Dezeen. Dezeen In Depth Sent on the last Friday of every month, Dezeen in Depth features original feature articles, interviews and opinion pieces that delve deeper into the major stories shaping architecture and design. Dezeen Jobs Daily updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. Dezeen Jobs Weekly Weekly updates on the latest design and architecture vacancies advertised on Dezeen Jobs. Plus occasional news. Dezeen Awards News about our Dezeen Awards programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. Dezeen Events Guide News from Dezeen Events Guide, a listings guide covering the leading design-related events taking place around the world. Plus occasional updates and invitations to Dezeen events. Dezeen Awards China News about our Dezeen Awards China programme, including entry deadlines and announcements. Plus occasional updates. We will only use your email address to send you the newsletters you have requested. We will never give your details to anyone else without your consent. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of every email, or by emailing us at [email protected] . For more details, please see our privacy notice . Thank you! You will shortly receive a welcome email so please check your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of every newsletter. Architecture criticism in 2024 defined by "shouting and not a lot of clarity" says Paul Goldberger "Food production is an ideal place to start rethinking how we design" Popular jobs Featured jobs 1 Part 2/3 architectural assistant at Nick Leith-Smith Architecture & Design 2 3D designer at Renegade Design 3 Senior architects at UNStudio 4 Part 2 architectural assistant/architectural technologist at ArchitecturePLB 5 Director of marketing and communications at Universal Design Studio 1 Architect at Fine Architecture 2 Part 3 architects at Pilbrow & Partners 3 US sales representative at Dezeen 4 Dezeen Awards content manager at Dezeen 5 Part 2 architectural assistant/architect at Urbanist Architecture Eight compact garden studios with neat storage solutions The architecture of Euro 2024's stadiums Dezeen Events Guide Dezeen Jobs Highlights Installations Kusama London installation Installations Kusama London installation Public and leisure Life-size Polly Pocket house Public and leisure Life-size Polly Pocket house Skyscrapers Tallest mass-timber skyscraper Skyscrapers Tallest mass-timber skyscraper Stadiums LA Clippers basketball stadium Stadiums LA Clippers basketball stadium Exhibitions IM Pei retrospective Exhibitions IM Pei retrospective Hotels Recycled-plastic thatch resort Hotels Recycled-plastic thatch resort Interview Mathieu Lehanneur interview Interview Mathieu Lehanneur interview Residential architecture and interiors Team USA Olympic accommodation Residential architecture and interiors Team USA Olympic accommodation Hotels Mojave Desert follies Hotels Mojave Desert follies Skyscrapers Tallest residential skyscraper Skyscrapers Tallest residential skyscraper Landscape and urbanism Natural History Museum gardens Landscape and urbanism Natural History Museum gardens Pavilions Birds' nest metal pavilion Pavilions Birds' nest metal pavilion Adaptive reuse Grain-silo art centre Adaptive reuse Grain-silo art centre Artificial intelligence (AI) AI Friend device Artificial intelligence (AI) AI Friend device Office interiors Eames HQ interiors Office interiors Eames HQ interiors Share: Newsletters Comments Submit a story Advertise Privacy notice Contact Series Interviews Opinion Talks Videos Architecture Interiors Design Technology Magazine Awards Jobs Events Guide Showroom School Shows Courses