UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Global Climate Cases Move International Human Rights Law Debate Bloomberg Law: Mary Wood, professor of law at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. Squash Bees Flourish in Response to Agricultural Intensification Morning Ag Clips: Nathaniel Pope, postdoctoral scholar at the University of Oregon Institute of Ecology and Evolution, is study coauthor. Ocean warming intensifies viral outbreaks within corals Rice University News: Rebecca Maher, postdoctoral scholar in the University of Oregon Institute of Ecology and Evolution, is a study coauthor. Some coastal salt marshes are keeping pace with sea level rise Molly Keogh, a coastal geologist at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. UO's College of Design embraces transpecies design concept The University of Oregon College of Design transpecies design initiative puts design to work in an effort to address anthropogenic species extinction. Lori Chavez-DeRemer, Andrea Salinas prepare for long talks on farm bill during first terms in Congress Oregon Law Professor Michael Fakhri—faculty leader of the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center's Food Resiliency Project—provides expert commentary as the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food. Struggling Northwest kelp forests sending out an SOS. Help is coming KLCC: Features study by Oregon State University marine ecologist Sarah Gravem and Aaron Galloway, an associate professor at the University of Oregon Institute of Marine Biology. A Rising Tide: Women in Water Power Water Power Technologies Office: Yekang Ko, associate professor of landscape architecture at the University of Oregon, is one of six featured "water power champions." Pacific Crest through-hike sparks interest in fire ecology Zoey Bailey, environmental sciences student at the University of Oregon, explains how personal experience contributed to her current research on the affect of wildfires on the "seed bank" of sub-surface seeds in scorched soil. Electric scooter partnership expands campus commute options The new e-scooters, which provide another eco-friendly option for campus commuters, are part of a one-year pilot program launched by the city of Eugene in partnership with the University of Oregon and Cascade Mobility. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Current page 12 Page 13 Page 14 Page 15 Page 16 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.