UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News UO team will use zebrafish in new study of aquatic symbioses A UO-led team of researchers spanning physics, neuroscience, molecular biology, ecology and evolution will use a new $325,000 grant to examine aquatic symbioses — the interactions between different animal species living together. The project is funded by a 30-month award from the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation  and involves the study of zebrafish in controlled ecosystems. Sustainable architecture as pipeline protest Erin Moore, director of the School of Architecture & Environment, is using architecture as a form of protest against the construction of the Pacific Connector Pipeline, she recently told Metropolis, a magazine about sustainable architecture and design. The story explores Moore’s “Pipeline Portals,” three pavilions installed along proposed routes of the contested Pacific Connector Pipeline, a 229-mile gas line planned for construction across the Pacific Northwest. Research probes repercussions of seafloor activity on society A University of Oregon doctoral student is exploring how technological infrastructure located on the ocean floor, particularly submarine internet cables, has influenced people’s lives in the Pacific Northwest. Hayley Brazier is driven by two big questions: How and why have people come to depend so heavily on infrastructure scattered across the ocean floor? And how would a natural disaster affect coastal society? UO's indoor research center takes aim at COVID-19 risks Stringent social distancing measures and building cleaning efforts to protect occupants from the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 are in line with research conducted in the University of Oregon’s Biology and the Built Environment Center. The Year of Water opens the spigot on university research The Year of Water is a joint effort by the University of Oregon, Oregon State University and Portland State University to highlight the role Oregon’s research universities play as leaders and partners trying to address water-related challenges in Oregon, the region and the world. SOJC renames science communication research center The UO School of Journalism and Communication’s center for advancing science communication research has launched a new name and two new interdisciplinary research programs. UO and Tillamook's symbiotic partnership With the consumption of plant-based alternatives rising among these generations challenging the dairy industry, Paul Snyder sought a cohort of students that could think creatively and critically about how to capture these changes in Tillamook’s branding. Christina Calvin '19 and her lithium-powered startup With a background in geology, mining, and the oil and gas industry, Christina Calvin’s success underlines the fact an MBA with a focus in sustainable business is increasingly relevant to students and professionals from diverse backgrounds and areas of interest—especially the sciences. Approaching climate change in an integrated way Three professors will co-teach "Arctic Icebergs" in Spring 2020, a course that comprehensively examines climate change with aspects of environmental research, literature, and natural science. Design for health: Student projects explore the unseen There was a belief that health could be improved through building design, but as the world experienced an oil crisis and saw the effects of climate change, design focus shifted to energy conservation. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 47 Page 48 Page 49 Page 50 Page 51 Page 52 Page 53 Current page 54 Page 55 Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.