UO hosts Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Lecture | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts UO hosts Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Lecture April 27, 2023 - 1:16pm Twitter Facebook The 2023 Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Lecture, part of the UOxEJ event series , will feature Jen Rose Smith, an assistant professor of geography and American Indian studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. The lecture will take place May 2 at 7 p.m. at the Many Nations Longhouse at the University of Oregon. Smith's lecture builds from her current book project focusing on Alaska and the Arctic. Called “Icy Matters: Race, Indigeneity, and Coloniality in Ice-Geographies,” the book lies at the intersection of Native studies, cultural human geography and environmental humanities. Her keynote lecture will feature student respondents and dialogue. The visiting students include: Wesley Carrasco, an Indigenous Lenca doctoral student in geography at the University of Washington; Luis Gonzalez-Quizhpe, a Kichwa Saraguro master's student in Latin American, Caribbean and Iberian studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison; and Kristin Klingman, a member of the Lac Vieux Desert Band in what is currently known as Watersmeet, Michigan, and a graduate student in human ecology at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Mark Carey, co-organizer of the Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Lecture, and a UO professor of environmental studies and geography, said that “Jen Rose Smith and her graduate students are crucial voices to understand environmental justice and to reframe the way we talk about climate change, the Arctic and Indigenous communities living daily with both climate injustices and colonial legacies.” Funding for the lecture comes from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation through the Pacific Northwest Just Futures Institute for Racial and Climate Justice. Additional information and co-sponsors can be found on the Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples website . News Briefs Submit Your Story Idea News Briefs UOPD plans active shooter response drill Aug. 24-25 Several projects could emit noise and odor on campus National Science Foundation director visits UO Aug. 26 Employees can serve as host families for incoming students Portions of East 13th Avenue will be closed due to utility work All News Briefs Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.