UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Pacific Northwest teams win federal funding for semiconductors, energy tech and more GeekWire: University of Oregon is the lead institution for RE-ACT (Sustainable and Resilient Architecture, Engineering and Construction in Mass Timber) and a leadership partner in a smart-grid project called SEQUINS (Smart, EQUitable, INteroperable and Secure). Breaking the Ice In her first novel, University of Oregon alumna and glaciologist M Jackson tells the story of four women and the fierce fight for survival. Study - Accumulation of radiocarbon in ancient landscapes: A small but significant input of unknown origin Nature Journal: Researchers with the Soil Plant Atmosphere Research Lab at the University of Oregon collaborated to produce the report on radiocarbon levels in ancient soils near Oregon's "Painted Hills." Call for Applications: PNW Ice and Environmental Justice Course Development Grant Thanks to generous support from the Andrew Mellon Foundation, funding is available for faculty looking to develop a new environmental justice course—particularly one connected to the PNW and to snow, ice, glaciers, or glacier-fed waterways. Apply by June 2nd, 2023. Thrive Umpqua begins Bike Month with Dr. Schlossberg KQEN-AM: Marc Schlossberg, professor of planning, public policy and management at the University of Oregon, will present. Seattle Conservation Leader Appointed to State Recreation and Conservation Board Washington State Recreation and Conservation Office: Kathleen "Kitty" Craig has a master of arts degree in community and regional planning from the University of Oregon. Call for Abstracts: Annual Environmental Joint Campus Conference Interested in sharing a poster or oral presentation at "Celebrating Environmental Knowledges," the 2023 Environmental Joint Campus Conference? Submissions are due May 1, 2023. UO hosts Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Lecture The 2023 Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Lecture, part of the UOxEJ event series, will feature Jen Rose Smith, assistant professor of geography and American Indian studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. UO moves toward becoming an Hispanic-serving institution The University of Oregon is making significant strides toward becoming a designated Hispanic-serving institution with the release of a comprehensive report and the recent appointment of a special adviser to lead the initiative. Welcome to the fourth cohort of the Public Voices Fellowship on the Climate Crisis Yale Program on Climate Change Communication: Danny Pimentel, assistant professor of immersive media psychology in the School of Journalism and Communication at the University of Oregon, was chosen for a Public Voices Fellowship. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Current page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.