Fall Sustainability Open House to focus on transportation | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Fall Sustainability Open House to focus on transportation October 27, 2023 - 8:33am Twitter Facebook The Office of Sustainability will welcome the UO community to the Fall Sustainability Open House on Nov. 9 in the Erb Memorial Union. The event will run from noon to 1:30 p.m. in the Swindells Room, also known as Room 230. Happening three times a year, Sustainability Open House events bring together faculty members, staff and student groups to share sustainability work happening across the institution. This year’s Fall Sustainability Open House will focus on transportation. Speakers giving micro-presentations include David Reesor from Transportation Services; Marc Schlossberg from Planning, Public Policy and Management; Aaron Olsen from Campus Planning; and students from Live Move. Attendees will learn about sustainable transportation at the UO and beyond. They also will have a chance to share their perspectives on a potential enhancement project on the Eugene campus. Attendees are encouraged to bring their lunch, and light refreshments also will be provided. Questions? Contact Katie Lucca, sustainability program coordinator, at klucca@uoregon.edu . Workplace Workplace Campus Resources Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Workplace Financial Stewardship Institute offers context, contacts Fall term parking permit renewals and sales start soon Staff can share thoughts on getting to and around campus Transition to UOmail nears completion for university Truck will power orientation during Aug. 7 electrical tests All Workplace Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.