UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Reclaiming Our Public Waters After the Supreme Court's Devastating Decision Washington Monthly: Adell Amos, professor of law and executive director of the Environment Initiative at the University of Oregon, is article author. What East Coasters could learn from West Coast wildfires as smoke from Canada hits Northeast ABC News: Dr. Michael Coughlan, an environmental anthropologist at the University of Oregon who studies wildfires and fire management, is quoted. Ducks Give raises $1.8 million from close to 1,500 gifts 2023 supporters touched many parts of campus, with programs like the Environment Initiative and scholarships and student success receiving more than 100 gifts apiece, and many schools and colleges unlocking all of their challenge gifts. The 1493 Doctrine of Discovery: An interview with Steven Newcomb, Shawnee/Lenape The Sopris Sun: Newcomb majored in rhetoric and communication at the University of Oregon. Nation's first youth climate lawsuits to go to trial ABA Journal: Mary Wood, professor of law at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary. Maps and Apps Help Track Wildfire Smoke by City and Neighborhood Bloomberg: Benjamin Clark, associate professor in the University of Oregon School of Planning, Public Policy and Management, provides expert commentary. Bridging the Gap Between Traditional Historic Preservation Practices and the Lived Experiences of Black Communities in Oregon The University of Oregon's Just Futures Institute for Racial and Climate Justice (JFI) is one of five partners in Restore Oregon's new initiative, which focuses on researching, celebrating, and educating Oregonians about Black history and preservation in Oregon. The Vanishing Forest The Nature Conservancy: Cites study by the University of Oregon and other partners. Grad student uses data science to explore biological diversity Jordan Rodriguez, a graduate student in the Institute of Ecology and Evolution at  the University of Oregon, co-authored study that uncovers biases in biodiversity data. Time Space Existence show in Venice spotlights solutions for a planet under pressure Dezeen: Adrian Parr, dean of the College of Design at the University of Oregon, has an exhibition. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Current page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.