Campus celebrates Native American heritage through November | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Campus celebrates Native American heritage through November November 6, 2023 - 12:00pm Twitter Facebook Native American Heritage Month is being celebrated all through November on the UO campus with a series of events, including Native-themed films, speakers, and more. The heritage month is “a time to celebrate the rich culture, traditions, and achievements of our nation’s first people and our Native community on campus,” said Katie Staton, steward of the Many Nations Longhouse, a Tsimshian and enrolled member of the Sitka Tribe of Alaska. “It is also an important time to learn about the history and heritage of Native peoples and to support Native-owned businesses and artists.” Some of the events on this Native American calendar are recurring, such as Culture and Community Nights at the Longhouse, but many are unique to Native American Heritage Month, including a film festival, lectures, a colloquium on Indigenous language reclamation, a world music show, and a one-act play, Among the highlights are a free dinner presentation called BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird, an Indigenous artist and enrolled member of the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde. Her work will be featured in an artist-in-residence exhibit in the McMillan Gallery in the Erb Memorial Union. Littlebird is an artist, curator, and writer. She received national recognition as curator of “This IS Kalapuyan Land,” a 2020 exhibition at the Five Oaks Museum in Portland, which was featured by ArtNews and PBS Newshour. As an artist, her work combines traditional aesthetics with contemporary materials and subject matter to forge connections between the collective past and imminent future. For the second year, limited-edition Home Flight wool blankets will be on sale this month. The blankets were designed by UO alumna Kale’a Calica-Younker (Coquille/Coos/Warm Springs/Yakama), and her father, Shirod Younker (Coquille/Miluk/Coos/Umpua). A portion of the proceeds to go the UO’s Home Flight Scholars Program and the Native Duck Nation Alumni Network . Inspired by traditional basket designs and seasonal changes, the double-sided print of the blanket highlights the return patterns of ducks working together to navigate a long journey and features the UO’s traditional green and yellow. “These events are celebrating Native Heritage and culture, but most importantly bringing light to the various concerns and issues affecting tribal communities,” said Keyen Singer, co-director of the Native American Student Union and a member of the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla. Singer, a second-year student who is the reigning Miss Indigenous UO, said the events happening this month are important “because they remind all students and faculty that we are still here. “Native American Heritage month is not only in the month of November because we're Indigenous every day. In these events we can express our Indigeneity, celebrate our heritage, and not feel alone because they bring us all together,” she said. — By Tim Christie, Office of the Provost —Top photo: Modeling the Home Flight blankets is Miss Indigenous UO, Keyen Singer (Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation), a sophomore studying environmental studies. Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus News Learn about the UO and Big Ten through a popular word game New Oregon Quarterly showcases UO’s move to the Big Ten conference Chasing gold at Hayward Field: The UO’s Olympic Trials legacy Oregon Bach Festival is ready to soar with ‘Ascending Voices’ UO launches Oregon150 Initiative for student success and growth All Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.