UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News UO study will engage rural, Indigenous groups on climate issues Lucas Silva, professor of environmental studies and biology, and his research team, awarded new NSF grant which will help tackle big challenges using biology, environmental data and local input UO students to help make Salem more walkable, equitable This year, the University of Oregon has again selected Salem as its partner for the program, which allows students to apply their studies of architecture, planning, public administration, journalism and geography to real city projects. How the built environment could help all species flourish Adrian Parr, UO's College of Design dean, joined Oregon Public Broadcasting's (OPB) Think out Loud for a broadcast "How the built environment could help all species flourish". UO chemist named Blavatnik laureate Shannon Boettcher was one of 267 nominees for this year's Blavatnik National Awards for Young Scientists and has been named the 2023 Blavatnik National Award Laureate in Chemistry. U.S. East Coast can look west for smoke management help Authorities should communicate to residents affected by wildfire smoke events, said Cassandra Moseley, who leads the Wildfire Smoke Research and Practice Center at the University of Oregon. Yizhao Yang wins Fulbright scholarship to Japan Yizhao Yang, associate professor in the College of Design, School of Planning, Public Policy and Management, has been awarded a Fulbright scholarship to Japan. Ducks of Impact: Alumni working for environmental change See how six UO alums, including UO's Environment Initiative senior faculty fellow Greg Dotson are advancing sustainability, tackling climate change and more. Latest I3 seed funding cycle supports new projects on city planning and immersive science communication, data justice Powering Change: Federal Funding for State Programs Eugene Weekly (EW), an Oregon-based weekly newspaper, profiled professor Greg Dotson for an article, "Powering Change: Federal Funding for State Programs." Fighting Hunger from the Willamette Valley University of Oregon's food law expert Michael Fakhri helps the United Nations Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Current page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.