A new digital space for all UO Latinx news is now online | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts A new digital space for all UO Latinx news is now online September 22, 2023 - 10:00am Twitter Facebook As the Latinx community continues to grow and diversify at the UO, the Office of the Provost has launched a new webpage dedicated to the Latinx community on campus. Patos Unidos is a space for Latinx information, support and connection, and for members of the community to share, celebrate and find one another. The site serves as a collection of Latinx academic programs, research, resources, events, communities, stories and leaders at the UO. “We learned that there is quite a bit happening at UO, but it is kind of a jigsaw puzzle,” said Laura Pulido, a professor of Indigenous, race and ethnic studies and geography. “People didn’t understand how all the pieces fit together, or who exactly does what. People wanted a place where we could ‘find each other.’” Pulido convened a committee of diverse campus stakeholders, including faculty and staff members and students, which met over the summer to brainstorm resources and topics and to provide guidance for creation of the site. The launch of the new webpage coincides with National Hispanic Heritage Month, which is celebrated from Sept. 15 to Oct. 15. Latinx enrollment has increased steadily at the UO in recent years, with 15.3 percent of the undergraduate student population identifying as Hispanic or Latinx. In response to that growth, the College of Arts and Sciences has launched a cluster hire initiative to add Latinx studies tenure-track faculty members in six departments: anthropology, English, history, linguistics, political science and sociology. Pulido said cluster hires are an effective tool to recruit and retain underrepresented faculty members. Currently, her department cannot offer enough sections of introduction to Chicanx/Latinx studies to meet demand, “so this will definitely help us meet our students’ needs.” “For many students, seeing someone who looks like them or has a similar experience is not only affirming, but we know that students tend to seek out such faculty members for mentorship and support,” Pulido said. “Not only does it allow students to learn diverse perspectives, but it enables majority students to see people of color in a range of positions.” Patos Unidos is intended to be an ongoing project, and members of the community will be able to share resources, news, events, services and opportunities that can be added to the site. — By Tim Christie, Office of the Provost Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus News Learn about the UO and Big Ten through a popular word game New Oregon Quarterly showcases UO’s move to the Big Ten conference Chasing gold at Hayward Field: The UO’s Olympic Trials legacy Oregon Bach Festival is ready to soar with ‘Ascending Voices’ UO launches Oregon150 Initiative for student success and growth All Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.