Oregon Hazards Lab | UO UO Environment Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Oregon Hazards Lab OHAZ Lab The Oregon Hazards Lab uses science, technology, and community engagement to understand, monitor, and mitigate multi-hazards within the Pacific Northwest. In response to the historic 2020 wildfire season, OHAZ is leading a team of regional stakeholders — representing emergency response, public utilities, and educational advocates — to deploy resilient communications and monitoring infrastructure in Oregon that mitigates wildfire risks, supports emergency communications, and enhances economic recovery. We are currently partners in the following efforts: Pacific Northwest Seismic Network Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, a collaboration of the University of Oregon and the University of Washington, locates more than 1,400 earthquakes a year greater than magnitude 1.0 in Washington and Oregon. Beginning in 1969 with five seismometers, the PNSN has grown to more than 300 seismograph stations distributed across the region and become the second largest seismic network in the United States. Visit the PNSN website . ShakeAlert™ ShakeAlert™ is an earthquake early warning (EEW) system that detects significant earthquakes so quickly that alerts can reach many people before shaking arrives. The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) along with a coalition of State and university partners is developing and testing the ShakeAlert™ system for the west coast of the United States. The Oregon Hazards Lab is a leading member of the Oregon ShakeAlert Committee — a coordinated group of stakeholders from around the state. Visit the ShakeAlert website. ALERTWildfire ALERTWildfire is a consortium of three universities — The University of Nevada, Reno, University of California San Diego, and the University of Oregon — providing access to state-of-the-art Pan-Tilt-Zoom fire cameras and associated tools to help firefighters and first responders locate, respond to, and monitor fires from ignition to containment to extinguishment. Visit the ALERTWildfire website. Meet Doug Toomey Doug Toomey is a Professor of Geophysics in the Earth Sciences Department at the University of Oregon, where he is the director of the Oregon Hazards Lab and principal investigator for the Oregon components of the Pacific Northwest Seismic Network, ShakeAlert, and ALERTWildfire. He is a pioneer in the use of ocean bottom seismology to explore tectonic plate boundaries and has led scientific expeditions in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Mediterranean oceans, the Galápagos Archipelago, and the Oman ophiolite. On a stormy day in the North Atlantic, when the deployment of an ocean bottom seismometer went badly, Doug was able to prevent a shipmate from losing several fingers. Over twenty years later, they have three wonderful children, a beloved dog, never enough bikes, and they explore the PNW in an 87 Westy that Doug pretends he knows how to fix. His kids have been heard to say, “if we’re not cold, wet, hungry, and stranded, it’s not really an adventure.” Doug received his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. How does your research respond to the Guiding Principles set out for the Environment Initiative? OHAZ combines innovative technologies with expertise that spans the natural sciences, social sciences, data sciences, cyberinfrastructure, and public policy. Our focus on mitigating natural and human-caused hazards directly supports state and federal policy that addresses societal resilience. We work with Governor Kate Brown and State Resilience Officer Mike Harryman to support Governor Brown’s policy initiative Resiliency 2025: Improving our Readiness for the Cascadia Earthquake and Tsunami. The overarching goal is to implement an emergency warning system for multi-hazard events: earthquakes, wildland fires, landslides, and flooding, into one alerting and monitoring system. With generous support from the State, OHAZ is contributing to this vision. ShakeAlert and ALERTWildfire are rooted in issues of equality and equity by focusing on providing actionable, life-saving information to the public and to lifeline infrastructure providers. Our programs address the region’s most frequent hazard (wildfire) and its most regionally devastating (Cascadia earthquake and tsunami). By supporting publicly available ShakeAlerts, or access to real-time ALERTWildfire video data, our programs provide citizens and first responders with up-to-the-second situational awareness. UO students share a strong sense of place and stewardship. The OHAZ vision of making our science actionable and beneficial to the public appeals to many. Students participating in OHAZ are exposed to science for use (applied science), science for discovery (basic science), and the need to communicate to policy makers and the general public. No single person can master the diversity of expertise required to stand up a public facing, public safety program. Students who join in on our mission, by necessity, dive into the deep end of the pool of convergent science. It is a thrilling experience and one that trains students to be both experts and generalists in a larger community. The Environment Initiative is committed to working together toward a just and livable future that addresses the intersections of environmental research and teaching with social and environmental justice. How does your research embody that goal? The framework of technology, science, and public engagement that strengthens resilience also enhances environmental stewardship and ecological understanding, and informs societal responses to climate and land-use changes. Current stewardship practices have a critical shortcoming, however: they are data-starved. Many technologies, while robust and precise, are expensive and monitoring/alerting networks too often rely on sparse topologies. Building on the successful growth of hazards monitoring, our vision is to be international leaders in utilizing Internet of (Wild) Things technologies that drive orders-of-magnitude denser (yet low-cost) networks that support stewardship of place. Technology alone, however, cannot build a resilient, just, and livable future. Consequently, one of our overarching goals is to provide physical, life, and social scientists with curated, open-access data that will deliver actionable information to emergency managers, lifeline infrastructure providers, decision makers, Tribal governments, and other members of the public. OHAZ seeks to simultaneously foster convergent research and build a disaster-resilient society. Achieving this vision will require that our programs are well informed by the broader community that comprises the University of Oregon’s Environmental Initiative. As a team, we look forward to that challenge, as well as the sense of camaraderie that an integrated Environmental Initiative will foster. Dr. Leland O’Driscoll Leland O’Driscoll serves as co-PI and manages the Oregon Hazards Lab program. As a trained geologist and geophysicist with extensive experience in seismological deployments in the western U.S., Spain, Morocco, Indonesia, and East Timor, he now has technical focus on real-time network operations. The ability to deploy and operate impactful public safety systems in Oregon and beyond motivates his pursuit of new research and applied science opportunities. Lucy Walsh At the University of Oregon, Lucy Walsh is the Oregon Coordinator for ShakeAlert, a West-Coast Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) system sponsored by the United States Geological Survey. She leads the State of Oregon ShakeAlert Committee and recruits successful public/private organizations to develop EEW delivery technology. Lucy received her Master of Science in Geological Sciences from University of Oregon, where she studied community impacts from volcanic eruptions. Sara Meyer Sara Meyer is the Field Lead for the Oregon Hazards Lab, where she guides field operations to remotely monitor earthquakes and wildfires in Oregon. Sara and the rest of the OHAZ field team install, maintain, and troubleshoot the expansive network of monitoring sites required for real-time data collection of public safety hazards. Her fieldwork spans from designing solar-powered systems to repairing bear-damaged site infrastructure. More from the OHAZ Lab OHAZ Lab Website ShakeAlert on Twitter ALERTWildfire on YouTube UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.