The Glacier Lab – For the Study of Ice and Society  |  University of Oregon Log In Search The Glacier Lab For the Study of Ice and Society  |  University of Oregon Menu Home Research Overview Glacier Justice Climate and Indigenous Communities Cryosphere Hazards Mountains, Climate, and Water Oceans, Coasts, and Ice Ice Humanities Interdisciplinary Ice-Society Research Projects Community Publications People News and Opportunities Archive Search for: Home Professor Mark Carey’s Glacier Lab at the University of Oregon is a dynamic and diverse group of graduate students, undergraduates, and postdocs researching the societal aspects of glaciers, icebergs, and snow worldwide. Follow these links to learn about News and New Opportunities , or our Research Mission and Guiding Principles — or to learn about People in the Lab and our Publications . Featured Glacier Lab Story The Glacier Lab in DC: Navigating the New Arctic Community Meeting and Archival Research at the Library of Congress and National Archives Apr 16, 2024 In March 2023, members of the Glacier Lab for the Study of Ice and Society traveled to Washington, D.C. for a National Science Foundation (NSF) conference and research at the Library of Congress and National Archives. First, Glacier Lab director Mark Carey and graduate students Dara Craig, Zachary Provant, Nicole Schaub, and Sijo Smith attended the National Science Foundation’s 2024 Navigating the New Arctic Annual Community Meeting. They were joined by Glacier Lab alum Holly Moulton, who is... read more Search for: Lab News Summer 2024 : Current Glacier Lab undergraduate Olivia Black and former Lab member Jenna Travers have been writing fascinating articles for GlacierHub published at Columbia University. Some of their newest pieces focus on glaciers running for president in Iceland, salmon-mining-glacier issues, coal+ice museum exhibits, and environmental personhood in social media. Congratulations Jenna and Olivia. Summer 2024 : A new StoryMap by Sijo Smith profiles Glacier Lab work she and Dara Craig have done in recent years, funded by the Andrew Mellon Foundation to work toward climate justice for Tribal communities. See a short intro writeup here and the full StoryMap is called "Engaging Graduate Students in Building a Just Climate" . Summer 2024 : Mark Carey has published a new article on " Charismatic Temporalities " that critiques both glacier geoengineering in Ilulissat, Greenland, and climate reporting broadly. Spring 2024 : Congratulations to Glacier Lab member Zac Provant (ENVS), who completed his PhD and has been appointed as a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in the Hazard and Climate Resilience Institute (HCRI) in the Department of Geosciences at Boise State University. Spring 2024 : Congratulations to Glacier Lab PhD student Sam Brown (Geography), who has received many prestigious fellowships to conduct international dissertation research in Greenland and Denmark, including an American Scandinavian Foundation Fellowship, Oregon Sasakawa Young Leaders Fellowship Fund (Sylff) Graduate Fellowship for International Research, Lewis and Clark Fund for Exploration and Field Research, the Einar and Eva Lund Haugen Memorial Scholarship from the Society for the Advancement of Scandinavian Study, and about a half dozen other prestigious awards. Spring 2024 : Mark Carey has received a National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Fellowship for 2024-2025 to support his current research project titled "Unruly Icebergs: Doing Business and Fighting Ice in the North Atlantic Ocean." He will be on sabbatical for the 2024-25 academic year. Spring 2024 : Congratulations to Glacier Lab undergraduate students Gillian Miller and Olivia Black who both presented their research at the UO Undergraduate Research Symposium . Fall 2023 : Congratulations to Glacier Lab member and PhD candidate Zac Provant for publishing a new dissertation article, called " Hazard zone conflicts in the avalanche capital: Stress points for avalanche and landslide mitigation in Juneau, Alaska ." Fall 2023 : 3 new Glacier Lab members join our group: Nicole Schaub (PhD student in Environmental Studies and Geography), Sijo Smith (Master's student in Environmental Studies), and Gillian Miller (Undergraduate in Environmental Studies and Geography). Welcome! Learn more about them on the People page. Summer 2023 : Mark Carey and Holly Moulton published two articles together, one on "the inequalities of ice loss" and another focusing on Holly's dissertation research in Peru on "futuremaking in a disaster zone" among Quechua-speaking women in Peru. See the Publications page for links/details. Spring 2023 : With both delight and sadness, we send off several Glacier Lab members who graduated in Spring 2023. Holly Moulton (now assistant professor at West Virginia University) and Hayley Brazier (now a curator at the High Desert Museum) both received their PhDs. Jenna Travers, Jess Gladis, and Sally Thompson all received their Bachelor's Degrees and are off to wonderful careers. Congratulations! Winter 2023 : Sitara Parveen joins the Glacier Lab as a new Postdoctoral Researcher, analyzing glacier-society dynamics in Pakistan. Three new undergraduate students have joined the Lab: Olivia Black, Mira Cross, and Sally Thompson. See the People page for details. Winter 2023 : Glacier Lab member and Glacier Hub writer Jenna Travers profiles a new ice humanities book chapter on glacier saving campaigns , written by Lab members Carey, Barton, and Flanzer. Fall 2022 : Two new PhD students join the Glacier Lab: Samantha Brown (Geography Department), who spent time in summer researching food and socio-environmental issues in Greenland, and Erin Dockins (Environmental Studies/Geography), who just completed a Master's in Polar Studies at the University of Cambridge. Summer 2022 : Congratulations to former undergraduate Glacier Lab members Jordan Barton , starting law school at UC Berkeley, and Sam Flanzer , starting law school at George Washington University. Jordan and Sam coauthored a book chapter with Mark Carey on "Glacier Protection Campaigns – What Do They Really Save?" in Ice Humanities: Living, Working, and Thinking in a Melting World , just published in August 2022. Spring 2022 : Great news and congratulations to Glacier Lab members for recent awards and accomplishments. Jenna Travers , profiled recently for her Goldwater Scholarship , received a "Women in Science" award from the City Club of Eugene. Holly Moulton received a Mellon Dissertation Fellowship from the Center for Environmental Futures/Just Futures Institute. Zac Provant won a Research Grant from The Mazamas . Jeremy Trombley received an American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Science and Technology Policy Fellowship . Incoming Lab member Erin Dockins published an article in Backpacker . The Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Initiative , which Mark Carey co-directs with Kathy Lynn, won a Sustainability Award . Spring 2022 : Congratulations to Dara Craig , a PhD student in the Glacier Lab, who has won a 2022 National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship that provides 3 years of full funding support. Winter 2022 : Congratulations to Jenna Travers , a junior in the Glacier Lab, who has won a distinguished 2022 Goldwater Scholarship . Fall 2021 : Congratulations to Hayley Brazier on her new position as the Donald M. Kerr Curator of Natural History at the High Desert Museum, Bend, Oregon . Fall 2021 : Hayley Brazier has won the " 2021 Joan Cahalin Robinson Prize from the Society for the History of Technology (SHOT) . The prize is "awarded for the best-presented paper by an individual delivering their first paper at the SHOT annual meeting." Hayley's paper was titled "Out of Sight, Out of Mind: Public Perception and the Visibility of Seafloor Technologies." Summer 2021 : Mark Carey is part of a larger US and international team that has received a five-year National Science Foundation grant from the Navigating the New Arctic program for research on " Global Changes, Local Impacts: Study of Glacial Fjords, Ecosystems and Communities in Greenland ." Summer 2021 : Congratulations to PhD candidate Holly Moulton for leading the publication of a new article in collaboration with the Glacier Lab and colleagues at the University of Zurich on " Narratives of ice loss: New approaches to shrinking glaciers and climate change adaptation ," published in Geoforum . Spring 2021 : Glacier Lab undergraduate researchers profiled in a recent news story about the Lab's research activities. Spring 2021 : Call for Applications: Undergraduate Research Awards ($4,000 each) are available for summer 2021 research on "Ice and Environmental Justice." These awards are for UO students to conduct their own independent ice-related research projects with a faculty mentor. Click here for application instructions. Applications due May 7, 2021. Spring 2021 : Congratulations to PhD candidate Zac Provant for leading the publication of a new article (co-authored in part by other current and former Glacier Lab members) on " Reframing Antarctica’s Ice Loss: Impacts of Cryospheric Change on Local Human Activity ." Winter 2021 : Mark Carey is part of a larger team that has received a major grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to focus on racial, environmental, and climate justice in the Pacific Northwest. One of Carey's funded projects for the Glacier Lab is on "Ice, Society, and Climate Justice," while the other continues and expands his longstanding collaboration with Kathy Lynn in the Environmental Studies Program on the Climate Change and Indigenous Peoples Initiative . Fall 2020 : The Glacier Lab and 3 of its undergraduate members (Jordan Barton, Sam Flanzer, and Jenna Travers) are profiled in a new story for the University of Oregon's just-launched Environment Initiative , while the UO also featured a story about Glacier Lab research in Greenland by Mark Carey , Casey Shoop , and Dave Sutherland . Fall 2020 : We welcome 3 new Glacier Lab members. Dara Craig joins the Glacier Lab to complete her PhD in the Environmental Studies Program . Undergraduate student Jenna Travers , a marine biology major, joins the Glacier Lab. Anthropologist Jeremy Trombley joins the Glacier Lab as a postdoctoral researcher working collaboratively with Dave Sutherland's Oceans & Ice Lab . Summer 2020 : Ph.D. candidate Holly Moulton has received a Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad grant to conduct her research on "Complicating vulnerability: Gendered disaster narratives, ice loss, and resilience in the Peruvian Cordillera Blanca." Spring 2020 : Ph.D. candidate Hayley Brazier's dissertation research on the seafloor and society has been profiled in the University of Oregon's Around the O publication. Hayley has received funding for this research from the National Science Foundation, Smithsonian Institution, and the UO's Center for Environmental Futures, among others. Spring 2020 : Environmental Studies Master's student Michael Madden has won an American Alpine Club Research Grant for his work on mountain guides and climate change in the Pacific Northwest. Spring 2020 : Jordan Barton has won a Center for Environmental Futures Undergraduate Honors Thesis Award in the Environmental Humanities for her Clark Honors College research on climate change, youth, and the law. Spring 2020 : Ph.D. candidate Hayley Brazier has received a National Science Foundation (NSF) doctoral dissertation grant for her research on "The Seafloor and Society: How Technological Development on the Ocean Floor Transformed North America." Winter 2020 : Apply now to a new postdoctoral position in Interdisciplinary Ice, Society, and Resilience research. Application deadline February 17, 2020 . Position will be hosted jointly here in Mark Carey's Glacier Lab and Dave Sutherland's Oceans & Ice Lab , at the University of Oregon. See the writeup about this postdoc position here at GlacierHub . Fall 2019 : Three new undergraduates join the Glacier Lab: Jordan Barton , Sam Flanzer , and Sakina Shahid . Spring 2019 : Alessandro Antonello , former postdoc in the Glacier Lab and current Australian Research Council Research Fellow , School of Historical and Philosophical Studies, University of Melbourne, Australia, has recently published his new book, The Greening of Antarctica: Assembling an International Environment (Oxford University Press). Spring 2019 : Mark Carey has been awarded a Faculty Research Mentor Award from the Center for Undergraduate Research and Engagement (CURE), for "exceptional mentoring of undergraduate research and experiential learning." Spring 2019 : Mackenzie Myers , an undergraduate student majoring in Environmental Studies, has been awarded a Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF) from the Center for Undergraduate Research and Engagement (CURE). Spring 2019 : Mark Carey , Dave Sutherland (UO, Earth Sciences), and Casey Shoop (UO, Clark Honors College) have won a Williams Council Instructional Grant to team teach a course on "Arctic Icebergs" and conduct collaborative research in Greenland. Spring 2019 : Hayley Brazier , a PhD candidate in the History Department, has been awarded a 2019 Wayne Morse Graduate Research Fellowship from the Wayne Morse Center for Law and Politics, as well as winning a Graduate Research Support Fellowship from the Oregon Humanities Center. Spring 2019 : Holly Moulton , a PhD student in the Environmental Studies Program, wins 2 fellowships for dissertation research in Peru: a Graduate Research Award from the Center for the Study of Women in Society and a Summer Research Grant from the Center for Latino/a & Latin American Studies (CLLAS) . Fall 2018 : Zac Provant , a PhD student in the Environmental Studies Program, and Michael Madden , an MA student in the Environmental Studies Program, join the Glacier Lab. Fall 2018 : Mark Carey wins the King Albert Mountain Award , presented in Pontresina, Switzerland, for his life-long contributions to mountain communities and environments . Spring 2018 : Becca Marshall joins the Peace Corps in Gambia starting later this year. Spring 2018 : Lab members win several fellowships, grants, and awards: UO Dissertation Research Fellowship ( Olivia Molden ); Tinker Field Research Grant provided through the Center for Latino/a and Latin American Studies ( Holly Moulton ); Environmental Studies Interdisciplinary Research Seed Grant for a joint ice-related field course with Dave Sutherland's Oceans and Ice Lab ( Holly Moulton, Hayley Brazier, and Mark Carey ). Spring 2018 : Hayley Brazier will be teaching a summer course on "Oceans and Society" in Woods Hole, MA for the Sea Education Association .  Her course will be for advanced high school students who are beginning their training as oceanographers. Spring 2018 : Alina Motschmann , a PhD student in Christian Huggel's Glaciology and Geomorphodynamics group in the Department of Geography at the University of Zurich, is visiting the Glacier Lab this term, to work on a collaborative project in the Peruvian Andes. Winter 2018 : Becca Marshall wins a prestigious University of Oregon Humanities Undergraduate Research Fellowship for her research on wild mushroom harvesting in Oregon. Fall 2017 : Hayley Brazier receives a scholarship from the Digital Humanities Summer Institute at the University of Victoria to attend the "Text Mapping as Modelling" course in Victoria in June 2018. Fall 2017 : Olivia Molden and Katie Meehan publish their new article, " Sociotechnical imaginaries of urban development: social movements around 'traditional' water infrastructure in the Kathmandu Valley ," in Urban Geography . Fall 2017 : Mark Carey appears on a podcast of The Alpinist called " Mountaineering and Climate Change ." Fall 2017 : Hayley Brazier receives fellowship to attend the ENHANCE School in Public Environmental Humanities in Stockholm, Sweden, sponsored by the KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Summer 2017 :Andrea Willingham successfully defends her M.A. thesis in Environmental Studies. Spring 2017 : M Jackson and Sean Munger successfully defend their Ph.D. dissertations in Geography and History, respectively. Josie Kinney successfully defends her B.A. Honors College thesis in Environmental Studies and Spanish. Spring 2017 : Augustine Beard becomes an Udall Undergraduate Scholar and wins a University of Oregon Library’s Undergraduate Research Award for his paper "Enemy in the Forests: Narratives and Fire in the Pacific Northwest." Winter 2017 : M Jackson presents our research in a TEDx talk at Middlebury College on " We Need More Stories of Ice ." Winter 2017 : Augustine Beard is awarded an Oregon Heritage Fellowship for his research on drought and land use among the Norther Paiute. Fall 2016 : Olivia Molden receives a Fulbright-Hays Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad grant to study water security in Nepal. Summer 2016 : Several new research assistants are working over the summer on glacier conservation, indigenous peoples and climate change in the Andes, glacier hazards, climate and health, and web design for the Glaciers and Society website . Summer 2016 : Sandro Antonello accepts new position as McKenzie Postdoctoral Fellow in the School of Historical and Philosophical Studies, University of Melbourne, Australia. Spring term 2016 : Asghar Kahn ( Karakoram International University ) joins the Glacier Lab, visiting from Pakistan. February 2016: Professor Fernando Purcell (Catholic University, Chile) is a visiting Glacier Lab member September 2015: M Jackson begins her dissertation research on Iceland glaciers and society on her NSF-Fulbright Grant Research Climate History Climate, Medicine, and Health Glaciers and Water Glacier Hazards and Disasters Knowledge, Science, and Power Mountaineering History TARN: Transdisciplinary Andean Research Network Proudly powered by WordPress · Theme: Suits by Theme Weaver