UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Oregon: State efforts on federal land 'reducing fire risk and providing jobs in the woods' Now researchers from the Ecosystem Workforce Program at the University of Oregon, Oregon State University and the USDA Forest Service Pacific Northwest Research Station have review findings to determine the program’s impact. A megaquake will someday strike the Pacific Northwest. This ship could figure out how bad it will be UO earth scientist Emilie Hooft is featured. Two organizations receive stewardship awards from MNCH The Museum of Natural and Cultural History has announced the winners of its annual Oregon Stewardship Award, recognizing two organizations, The Immigrant Story and OregonFlora, with the statewide honor. Klamath Basin water crisis plays out in a different legal, political landscape this time This summer, as in 2001 and 2002, the dire position of all stakeholders could trigger a desire for fresh basin-wide conversations about a new large-scale agreement to halt the cycle of drought-related conflict within the Klamath Basin. On View in Venice: Reimagining the Built Environment, Water, and Ecological Holism Dean Adrian Parr and Architecture Professor Erin Moore present exhibits at the European Cultural Centre’s biennial architecture exhibition Will history repeat in a dry Klamath Basin this summer? UO law professor Adell Amos provides expert commentary. Students are helping rebuild and recover from wildfires Last Labor Day, the blue, late summer skies around Eugene and Springfield began to turn brown as a wildfire suddenly blew u Is Ride-Hailing a Sustainable Transportation Solution for Nonprofits? PPPM professor Dyana Mason is featured. UO Today interview: Kory Russel, Landscape Architecture and Environmental Studies, Univ. of Oregon ‘Rutherford Falls’: Oregon’s Jana Schmieding adds warmth to a smart comedy about a town’s culture clash An Oregon native who grew up in Canby and graduated from the University of Oregon, Schmieding is enrolled in the Cheyenne River Lakota Sioux tribe. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 43 Page 44 Page 45 Page 46 Current page 47 Page 48 Page 49 Page 50 Page 51 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.