Research | UO UO Environment Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Research Faculty Excellence UO faculty making an environmental impact on campus, in our community, and in the world. RECOGNIZING FACULTY • FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES • CENTERS & INSTITUTES • AWARDS Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. Faculty in the Field John Arroyo puts focus on inclusive urbanism Initiative, John Arroyo will bring his experience in inclusive urban design, race and ethnic studies and climate justice to bear on furthering equity-oriented environmental research. ​​​​​​ Sarah Stapleton partners with Beyond Toxics Stapleton’s research, teaching, and community service working toward climate justice and environment education align with the EI’s mission and exemplify the EI’s Guiding Principles. Hollie Smith researches communication, natural hazards Focusing on natural hazards in the Pacific Northwest, Dr. Hollie Smith is on a mission to make complex science useful to society through researching the role communication plays in how people react to environmental crises. Alaí Reyes-Santos advocates for climate justice Water justice, environmental justice and Afro-Indigenous healing traditions are just a few of the areas of study and advocacy for Associate Director of the Pacific Northwest Just Futures Institute Alaí Reyes-Santos. Doug Toomey leads Oregon Hazards Lab Led by Doug Toomey, the Oregon Hazards Lab uses science, technology, and community engagement to understand, monitor, and mitigate multi-hazards within the Pacific Northwest. Lucas Silva heads Soil Plant Atmosphere Lab Lucas Silva and his team of researchers are using NSF funding to study relative carbon sequestration of trees and shrubs in partnership with EWEB on its property in Thurston. Funding Opportunities External resources can be found by using the UO's subscription to the Pivot database. For support with developing transdisciplinary research proposals and connecting with other researchers on campus, please contact the Environment Initiative. For assistance with, or to set up a personalized search in the Pivot database, please contact Research Development Services . Access Pivot Interdisciplinary Centers, Institutes, and Programs Center for Environmental Futures Center for Science Communication Research Center for Sustainable Business Practices Environment and Natural Resources Law Center Environmental Leadership Program Environmental Studies Program Institute for Ecology and Evolution Institute for Health in the Built Environment Institute for Policy Research and Engagement Institute for a Sustainable Environment Oregon Institute for Marine Biology Sustainable Cities Initiative Sustainable Cities and Landscapes Hub Tall Wood Design Institute Urbanism Next Awards & Recognitions Our students, staff, and faculty develop concrete strategies, creative practices, and analytical availabilities to combat our environmental issues. Their research has been awarded on campus and away, and displays the UO’s commitment to approaching environmentalism from many lenses. National Science Foundation Twelve current, former, and future Ducks have received 2018 graduate research fellowships from the National Science Foundation. Mellon Foundation A $4.52 million grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation will support a research platform for racial and climate justice. It is the largest humanities award in UO history. Mountain Award Mark Carey’s 20 years of research in a region of South America strongly affected by glaciers have elevated him into international mountaineering fame. For more UO Awards & Accolades, visit Around the O. UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.