Filmed by Bike Festival rolls onto campus with rides, movies | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Filmed by Bike Festival rolls onto campus with rides, movies May 12, 2023 - 5:00am Twitter Facebook In celebration of May as Bike Month, the University of Oregon’s Outdoor Program and LiveMove student group are joining community partners to provide a night of entertainment and information on bike access in the Eugene community. Taking place May 20, Filmed by Bike is a film festival based out of Portland that shows a selection of curated short films with a central theme of cycling and the outdoors. “We hope to get more people on bikes no matter their ability, gender or race, and engaging with active transportation because not only is it good for your body and mind but it’s good for the planet,” said Lucy Partridge, a LiveMove member and UO Outdoor Program employee who is helping organize the event. Organized around the theme of LEAP — Local Equitable Access to Pedaling — partners include local bicycle nonprofits Shift Community Cycles and Cascadia Mobility, as well as the city of Eugene. All proceeds from the festival will go to Shift Community Cycles, a bike shop dedicated to empowering underserved communities to join the cycling world through education and advocacy. “If we want to make sustainable changes and have this be a welcoming space, there need to be boots-on-the-ground people doing it,” said Annie Price, a LiveMove member and event organizer. “All the money that is going to Shift Community Cycles is allowing them to move into a bigger space to help nontraditional biking people enjoy this really amazing thing that should be easy to do, but it’s not.” On the day of the event, an optional group ride will end at Straub Hall on the UO campus, where the film festival is taking place. Interested riders should meet at Monroe Park, on the corner West 10th Avenue and Monroe Street, at 4:30 p.m. Free valet bicycle parking will be available upon arrival to campus. The festival will be from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. with doors opening at 6 p.m. A 90-minute screening will feature Filmed by Bike shorts from around the world plus local film submissions. Guest speakers from Dirt Maidens, Border Boys, the UO, Free Bikes 4 Kidz and Shift Community Cycles will discuss issues of accessibility, equity, inclusion and diversity in the biking community, followed by a short question-and-answer session. The festival also will include free pizza and a raffle for a bike provided by Shift Community Cycles and 360 Cycles. Tickets are now available online ; cost is $5 for students and $10 for the general public. —By Anna Persell, Student Services and Enrollment Management —Top photo: A scene from the film 'Trail to Kazbegi' Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus News Learn about the UO and Big Ten through a popular word game New Oregon Quarterly showcases UO’s move to the Big Ten conference Chasing gold at Hayward Field: The UO’s Olympic Trials legacy Oregon Bach Festival is ready to soar with ‘Ascending Voices’ UO launches Oregon150 Initiative for student success and growth All Campus News Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.