UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News New earthquake center coming to the UO It is the first NSF-funded center to research quakes like the anticipated 'Big One'. $2.2M For Oregon: Funding for renewable energy, energy improvement projects $100,000 to the University of Oregon's Resource Assistance for Rural Environments AmeriCorps Program to work with area partners to increase implementation of renewable energy generation by rural small businesses, farms, and agricultural producers throughout the state of Oregon. DIRECT AIR CAPTURE: ENERGY DEPARTMENT PROJECT AIMS TO REMOVE CARBON DIOXIDE FROM THE ATMOSPHERE Shannon Boettcher, professor of chemistry at the University of Oregon, said direct air capture technologies are not yet cost-effective, and are worth some investment in research and development. Feds award $15M for new cutting-edge research center to study Pacific NW earthquakes The National Science Foundation today announced $15 million in new funding over five years for the creation of the Cascadia Region Earthquake Science Center (CRESCENT). The facility will be based at the University of Oregon and the University of Washington will be a lead partner. Capturing carbon in savannas: New research examines role of grasses for controlling climate change A recent initiative set its sights on capturing carbon in tropical savannas, an ecosystem characterized by shared space of trees and grasses. The project initiated a tree planting effort (afforestation) to capture carbon dioxide from the air, which resulted in stored carbon in two primary places: the woody biomass of the growing trees, and in soils. The Supreme Court Is Bypassing Science—We Can’t Ignore It The court’s exclusion of scientists from the environmental rule making process comes full circle as the EPA strips federal protections for wetlands, argues Adell Amos, University of Oregon School of Law. Seven of the Greenest College Campuses in the U.S. In the U.S., seven campuses are particularly noteworthy for working to advance the cause of sustainability. No two schools have the exact same approach; they each have differing priorities and points that they focus on. But they've all got an interest in preserving our planet's livability and protecting their students' current and future quality of life. Graduate students ready to put conference lessons into action Meeting in Ecuador, the Association of Pacific Rim Universities (APRU) works to solve sustainability issues facing communities. In Montana, A Victory Against Fossil Fuel Story author Garrett Epps is a professor of practice in the School of Law. "Their legal team is largely made up of graduates of the University of Oregon law school, where I have taught, on and off, since 1992." Lewis and Meléndez Awarded Grant to Research Oregon Housing The School of Planning, Public Policy and Management (PPPM) is celebrating a competitive grant award earned by Associate Professor, Rebecca Lewis, and Assistant Professor, José Meléndez. The research team secured a competitive research grant from the Housing Solutions Lab, housed at the NYU Furman Center. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ Page 1 Page 2 Current page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.