Direct air capture: Energy Department project aims to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere | Milwaukee Independent TRENDING: Dear White People: If you have ever said any of these t... MAGA Christians cast a terribly tiny God in their own i... We’re NOT all in this together: Reckless protest ... © Donate Contact Subscribe News Articles Photos Columns Profiles Featured Specials Newswire Video Audio About Our Story Contact Support Subscribe Timeline Select Page Direct air capture: Energy Department project aims to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere Posted by Reporter | Sep 8, 2023 The Energy Department announced in August that it was awarding up to $1.2 billion to two projects to directly remove carbon dioxide from the air in what officials are calling the largest investment in “engineered carbon removal” in history. The process, known as direct air capture, does not yet exist on a meaningful scale and could be a game changer if it did and were economical. “If we deploy this at scale, this technology can help us make serious headway toward our net zero emissions goals while we are still focused on deploying more clean energy at the same time,” Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said in a press conference call. Project Cypress will be built in Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana. South Texas DAC is planned for Kleberg County, Texas. Each claims it will capture up to one million metric tons of carbon dioxide per year initially. A representative of the Texas project said it will scale up to remove 30 million metric tons per year once fully operational. No date was given. Officials said the projects will create 5,000 jobs for local workers and people formerly employed in the fossil fuel industry. Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards, who was also on the conference call, said his state, with its experience in petrochemical manufacturing, density of pipelines and geology, is best suited for projects that tackle carbon. The announcement shows the big bets the Biden administration is making on technologies that capture carbon dioxide from the air and store it underground to address climate change. It’s this gas more than any other that is heating the planet. Several scientists agreed with making some investment in direct air capture. Claire Nelson, a postdoctoral research scientist at Columbia University’s Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory said moving away from fossil fuels and producing the things we need without emissions are the most important ways to address climate change. But the scale of change needed makes direct air capture necessary as another tool. “In order to have direct air capture ready at the scale we need it by 2050, we need to invest in it today,” she said. Tim Lieuwen, executive director of the Strategic Energy Institute at the Georgia Institute of Technology agreed that the pollution from some kinds of heavy industry will need to be addressed through technologies like direct air capture. “We need to look at reducing emissions as quickly as practically possible,” said Melissa Lott, director of research for the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University. “This means more efficiency, more clean energy, and the use of other technologies including carbon management,” she said. Shannon Boettcher, professor of chemistry at the University of Oregon, said direct air capture technologies are not yet cost-effective, and are worth some investment in research and development. But some others say the technology for sucking carbon dioxide out of the air is still in its infancy, funding it is misguided, and the focus should be on eliminating emissions. “This money could be so much better spent on actual climate solutions that would be cutting emissions from the get go,” said Jonathan Foley, executive director of Project Drawdown, a group that publicizes climate solutions. He cited energy efficiency and lowering emissions from agriculture, transportation, electricity generation as better approaches. “What worries me and a lot of other climate scientists is that it potentially creates a fig leaf for the fossil fuel industry … the idea that we can keep burning stuff and remove it later,” Foley added. It is still unclear what role direct air capture will play in lowering emissions. Established technologies like solar, wind, and batteries continue to grow fast. Byline Source © Photo Isabella O’malley Associated Press Charlie Riedel (AP) Share: Previous Documenting a discovery: Shipwreck hunters find 1881 schooner Trinidad intact at bottom of Lake Michigan Next Scientists explore other contributing factors that fueled the summer’s record-shattering heat About The Author Reporter This published content was produced by Milwaukee Independent under license and in cooperation with the Associated Press (AP), the Pulitzer Prize winning independent news gathering source founded in 1846. Related Posts Ukraine tries to outsmart a brutal Russian army distracted by rebellion and infighting July 21, 2023 Aid organizations struggle to catch the world’s attention again as conditions for Syrians worsen June 25, 2023 Election nonprofit renews grants in Wisconsin and other states where GOP lawmakers tried to ban it December 13, 2022 Highway safety study finds more than half of car crash victims had drugs or alcohol in their system January 15, 2023 Full Coverage Ukraine Series Special Reports Journalism Awards Recent News Ukrainian armed forces now control almost 390 square miles of Russia’s Kursk region in blow to Putin Luke Waldo: The promise of a guaranteed income for the economic stability of Milwaukee families Families navigating adolescence offline find that life as a teen without social media is not easy The magic age for social media: What parents should know to protect their children from online addiction The Olympic spotlight has allowed Ukraine to capture global attention and fight war fatigue After Paris: A look ahead at Los Angeles in 2028 for the Summer Olympic Games Jackie Robinson: Rebuilt bronze statue of baseball icon unveiled 6 months after original was stolen When We Flew Away: New book by Alice Hoffman imagines the life of Anne Frank before she kept a diary Columnists Reggie Jackson Pardeep Kaleka Kenneth Cole Luke Waldo Dominic Inouye Contributors News Analysts Heather Richardson Thom Hartmann John Pavlovitz Robert Reich Sections Articles Photos Newswire Broadcast Profiles Graphics Spotlight Bucks 4th Annual Summer Block Party welcomes the community to the Fiserv Forum Knezelism of the Week Recent News Ukrainian armed forces now control almost 390 square miles of Russia’s Kursk region in blow to Putin Luke Waldo: The promise of a guaranteed income for the economic stability of Milwaukee families Families navigating adolescence offline find that life as a teen without social media is not easy Featured Series SPECIAL | Exploring Fukushima: 13th anniversary of the 3.11 earthquake, tsunami, and nuclear disaster Special Reports Black Lives Matter COVID-19 Pandemic Earthquake in Türkiye Invasion of Ukraine Jordan Medical Mission Mission to the Border Support Us Contribute Endorsements Membership Our Story Timeline Year In Review Designed by Elegant Themes | Powered by WordPress Transformative Journalism  Daily Newswire Editorial Specials Podcasts Subscribe Donate Contact © Privacy