Hazelnut researchers cover new ground with sustainable method | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Hazelnut researchers cover new ground with sustainable method September 22, 2023 - 5:00am Twitter Facebook Among the bright, leafy hazelnut trees of Dorris Ranch, Jazz Dhillon tosses a PVC pipe frame into the air. She kneels down where the pipe frame lands, cuts all the plants in the frame, and puts them in a white bucket. Dhillon, the lab manager for the Hallett Lab in the Department of Biology and the Environmental Studies Program, is collecting samples to test a new, more sustainable way to farm hazelnuts. The lab is part of the UO’s College of Arts and Sciences. A researcher collects samples of ground cover plants Normally, there wouldn’t be plants to cut. Hazelnut farmers in the United States intensively mow and apply pesticides to their orchards to create smooth ground where it’s easier to harvest nuts. Steve Haring, a postdoctoral researcher in the Hallett Lab, is studying what happens when cover crops, such as native wildflowers, are used as beds around the trees. On other kinds of farms, cover crops have helped diversify ecosystems, store carbon in the soil, attract pollinators, reduce weeds and retain water in the soil. And if they are mowed before harvest, they still leave smooth ground for farmers. Oregon produces 99 percent of hazelnuts in the U.S., and more and more farms in the Willamette Valley are shifting to hazelnuts because they require less management than annual crops, with technical support to grow them and more markets in which to sell them. Starting in 2019, Haring and Marissa Lane-Massee, a master’s student in the Hallett lab, created plots at two farms: Dorris Ranch, a working hazelnut orchard in Springfield contained within a public park, and an orchard near Keizer, Oregon, owned by Massee’s family. Haring has 12 plots at Dorris Ranch: four plots with no cover crops, four with a commercial plant mix, and four with a native plant mix. After Dhillon hands the bucket to Haring, he sorts the plants into weeds and the species they planted. He is observing features that are important to farmers, such as the weight of weeds and the species he planted, the number of pests, and the amount of water in the soil. To adopt cover crops, “there has to be some advantage for the farmer,” said Lynnea Lane, who co-owns the orchard near Keizer. While Haring is gathering evidence that cover crops, especially native cover crops, are a more sustainable approach for hazelnut orchards, it doesn’t make economic sense for farmers yet. Paul Massee, who co-owns the Keizer orchard with Lane, said it’s still a work in progress, and he is eager to find out where it goes. “We do this to better the industry in some way,” Massee said. “Will it be a practice that we use later on? I don’t know. But if we don’t try, we’ll never know.” — Story and photos by Vishva Nalamalapu, College of Arts and Sciences Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Academics & Research College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Academics and Research Philosophy prof is first at UO to win coveted Mellon fellowship People’s opinions influence their views of presidential norms UO experts lead research, share resources on withstanding wildfires Communicating numbers boosts trust in climate change science Study finds Latinx students who are studying abroad can face discrimination All Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.