Eugene Design Students Win PETA Award for Creatively Countering Speciesism | PETA × Donate Now Help Animals News Investigations Animal Rights Issues Living Students Shop About Donate Now Programs Students Opposing Speciesism (SOS) peta2 PETA Kids Join the Action Team TeachKind PETA Prime Support PETA Monthly Giving Shop Your Legacy For Animals PETA Vanguard Society ‘In Honor of’ and Memorial Gifts Membership Services More Ways to Support PETA Report Cruelty to Animals Skip to Content Donate Now People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Report Cruelty to Animals Animals are not ours to experiment on, eat, wear, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other way. Help Animals Help Animals Urgent Alerts Our Campaigns Action Team Activist Guide Get Active Online Leaflets & Stickers News News Features Videos Adoptable Animals Rescue Stories Investigations Recent Investigations Investigations & Rescue Fund Report Cruelty to Animals Animal Rights Issues Animal Rights Issues Animals Used for Experimentation Food Clothing Entertainment Companion Animals Wildlife Living Living Living 101 Personal Care & Fashion Food & Health Recipes Parents Humane Home Entertainment Animal Companions Students Students Opposing Speciesism peta2 PETA Kids TeachKind Shop PETA SHOP Cruelty-Free Database Literature PETA Shopping Guide PETA Approved Vegan PETA Presents About About Our Story Our Views Victories Milestones Volunteer Work at PETA Intern FAQ Contact Us PETA Global Donate Now Donate Now Vanguard Society ‘In Honor of’ and Memorial Gifts More Ways to Support Membership Services Gifts in Wills Help Animals Help Animals Urgent Alerts Our Campaigns Action Team Activist Guide Get Active Online Leaflets & Stickers News News Features Videos Adoptable Animals Rescue Stories Investigations Recent Investigations Investigations & Rescue Fund Report Cruelty to Animals Animal Rights Issues Animal Rights Issues Animals Used for Experimentation Food Clothing Entertainment Companion Animals Wildlife Living Living Living 101 Personal Care & Fashion Food & Health Recipes Parents Humane Home Entertainment Animal Companions Students Students Opposing Speciesism peta2 PETA Kids TeachKind Shop PETA SHOP Cruelty-Free Database Literature PETA Shopping Guide PETA Approved Vegan PETA Presents About About Our Story Our Views Victories Milestones Volunteer Work at PETA Intern FAQ Contact Us PETA Global Donate Now Donate Now Vanguard Society ‘In Honor of’ and Memorial Gifts More Ways to Support Membership Services Gifts in Wills News Releases PSAs Media: Order PSAs Contact PETA’s Media Department Eugene Design Students Win PETA Award for Creatively Countering Speciesism Share Post Share For Immediate Release: May 18, 2023 Contact: Nicole Meyer 202-483-7382 Eugene, Ore. – Fresh on the heels of the Young Ones Student Awards, which showcase students’ talents in creative studies, PETA is crowning three local contestants— Himali Glor , Parker Ruiz , and Logan Robertson from the University of Oregon—winners of PETA’s Choice Awards for their entry championing animal rights. Students were asked to create ads that challenge speciesism, the human-supremacist belief that other animals exist for our benefit. The students’ entry, titled “ Everyone Has a Mom ,” counters the speciesist view that a mother’s love is restricted to humans by showing examples of how mothers of other species are devoted to their offspring, too, including that a mother cow will walk for miles calling for her missing calf, a grieving elephant mother will guard the body of her dead baby for days, and young whales stay near their mothers long after they’ve learned how to fend for themselves. “This winning concept highlights the deep bond between mothers and their young, no matter the species,” says PETA Senior Director Danielle Katz. “With the help of these creative design students, PETA is reminding everyone to use their talents to speak out against speciesism.” Other concepts recognized by PETA include “Every Baby Has a Mother,” “Love is Human,” and “Lil’ Luxury Lucy” from Brigham Young University’s AdLab in Provo, Utah; “No Escape” by students from the College of Creative Studies in Detroit; “All Pain Sounds the Same” by a student from the School of Visual Arts in New York; and “Animals Anonymous” by students from the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York. PETA’s motto reads, in part, that “animals are not ours to abuse in any way.” For more information, please visit PETA.org , listen to The PETA Podcast , or follow the group on Twitter , Facebook , or Instagram . For Media: Contact PETA's Media Response Team. Contact Get PETA Updates E-Mail Address Sign me up for the following e-mail: Membership Updates PETA News Current subscribers: You will continue to receive e-mails unless you explicitly opt out here . By submitting this form, you’re acknowledging that you have read and agree to our privacy policy and agree to receive e-mails from us. Follow Us GET PETA UPDATES Stay up to date on the latest vegan trends and get breaking animal rights news delivered straight to your inbox! E-Mail Address Sign me up for the following e-mail: Membership Updates PETA News PETA Living Current subscribers: You will continue to receive e-mails unless you explicitly opt out here . By submitting this form, you’re acknowledging that you have read and agree to our privacy policy and agree to receive e-mails from us. Get the Latest Tips—Right in Your Inbox We’ll e-mail you weekly with the latest in vegan recipes, fashion, and more! E-Mail Address Sign me up for the following e-mail: Membership Updates PETA News PETA Living Current subscribers: You will continue to receive e-mails unless you explicitly opt out here . By submitting this form, you’re acknowledging that you have read and agree to our privacy policy and agree to receive e-mails from us. “Almost all of us grew up eating meat, wearing leather, and going to circuses and zoos. We never considered the impact of these actions on the animals involved. For whatever reason, you are now asking the question: Why should animals have rights?” READ MORE — Ingrid E. Newkirk, PETA President and co-author of Animalkind Read More People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals 501 Front St., Norfolk, VA 23510 757-622-PETA (7382) 757-622-0457 (fax) PETA is a nonprofit, tax-exempt 501(c)(3) corporation (tax ID number 52-1218336). CFC #11651 About PETA Our Story Careers Why Animal Rights? Victories Volunteer PETA Prime Sign Up for E-Mails Join PETA’s Text List Contact PETA Chat provider: LiveChat International Publications Help Animals Urgent Alerts Our Campaigns Join the Action Team For Students For Teachers For Media Media Center News Releases PSAs For Media: Order PSAs Contact Media Team Support PETA Become a Member Make a Monthly Gift Make a Memorial Gift Make an Honorary Gift Make a Stock Gift Gifts in Wills What Is the Vanguard Society? Membership Services Gift Memberships More Ways International Sites PETA U.K. PETA France PETA Germany PETA Netherlands PETA Switzerland PETA India PETA Australia PETA Asia 亚洲善待动物组织 PETA Latino © 2024 PETA | Read Our Full Policy Careers Contact Contest Terms & Conditions Disclaimer Texting Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Terms of Use Report Website Abuse Next Article » Share Post Donate Text BRAD to 73822 to urge Brad Pitt’s cashmere company to stop exploiting animals to make money! Every item made of cashmere represents pain and suffering. Terms for automated texts/calls from PETA: http://peta.vg/txt . Text STOP to end, HELP for more info. Msg/data rates may apply. U.S. only. ✕