UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Oregon could glean lessons from Colorado River compromise Executive Director of the University of Oregon's Environment Initiative Adell Amos joined Oregon Public Broadcasting's (OPB) Think Out Loud for a broadcast, "Oregon could glean lessons from Colorado River compromise." UO forum helps Oregonians access billions for climate University of Oregon’s Environment Initiative convened an online forum of national experts to help Oregonians make the most of the opportunities and advance the state as a leader in the fight against climate change. Listen to Climate Change: America and the World Podcast Episode 4: Climate Change and Race LSE, The Ballpark Podcast: centennial professor Laura Pulido (LSE Department of Geography and Environment and Phelan US Centre) and Jeremy Williams (The Earthbound Report) discuss how environmental racism manifests and how urban development has contributed to this problem. Environment Initiative names six new faculty fellows The University of Oregon’s Environment Initiative has named six faculty fellows for the 2023-24 academic year. Northwest Indian Language Institute provides valuable support to Klamath Tribes Language Department The Northwest Indian Language Institute (NILI) at the University of Oregon is featured along with interim director Robert Elliott and associate director of project development Joana Jansen. Unraveling Fish Evolution: The Surprising Impact of River Erosion Josh Roering, professor of earth sciences at the University of Oregon, provides expert commentary for Sci Tech Daily. Inside Manchin's war with Biden on electric vehicles E&E Daily: Roberta Mann, professor emerita at the University of Oregon School of Law, is quoted. Transpecies design projects featured in Venice Biennale Environmentally minded work from University of Oregon, College of Design students, faculty promotes the flourishing of all species . Vessel promises new era for Oregon Institute of Marine Biology Long in the works, the Megalopa at Oregon Institute of Marine Biology (OIMB) will be safer, faster and better-equipped for ocean exploration. How migratory birds are connecting students in Oregon and Mexico Oregon Live: The University of Oregon is a collaborator in the Willamette-Laja Twinning Partnership. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Current page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.