UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Film gets people talking about fire Chico Enterprise-Record: Filmmaker Trip Jennings has a BA in English from the University of Oregon. IHBE Awarded Grant to Tackle Urban Agriculture The University of Oregon Institute for Health in the Built Environment has been awarded nearly $1 million in research funding by the USDA National Institute of Food and Agriculture. Call for Applications: 2023-24 University of Oregon Sustainability Fellowship The Sustainability Fellowship supports faculty in doing community-engaged learning or participatory action research, connects faculty with community partners, and provides fellows with a network of colleagues who seek to incorporate issues of sustainability into their curricula. Harvard climate change and health expert to explore storytelling as a climate change solution The University of Oregon School of Journalism and Communication will bring internationally recognized climate change and health expert Dr. Renee Salas to campus to deliver her talk, "Climate Action as a Powerful Prescription to Improve Health and Equity." Alaí Reyes-Santos named to National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine planning committee Dr. Alaí Reyes-Santos is a professor of practice at the University of Oregon School of Law, Associate Director of the Pacific Northwest Just Futures Institute for Racial and Climate Justice, and founder of the ceremonial space Ilé Estrella de los Mares. Our Worst Day – Preparing for a Cascadia Subduction Zone Earthquake and Tsunami Valerie Sahakian, assistant professor of earthquake hazards at the University of Oregon, is interviewed. Americans Remain Leery of Driverless Cars, Surveys Say GovernmentTechnology: Features study by Nico Larco, professor of architecture and director of the Urbanism Next Center at the University of Oregon. After landslides killed three locals in Sitka, the Alaska city responded with science NPR: Annette Patton, postdoctoral scholar, and Josh Roering, professor, in the University of Oregon department of earth sciences, are leading community-driven landslide work in Sitka. PIELC, Back in Action Eugene Weekly: Mary Wood, professor of law, and law student Maddie Reese, are part of the historic conference hosted annually at the University of Oregon. Honors college students go in search of the Cayuse Five After successfully launching "Searching for the Cayuse Five" in 2022, Michael Moffitt, a professor with the University of Oregon's School of Law and Clark Honors College, is teaching the 400-level colloquium course again this term. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Current page 13 Page 14 Page 15 Page 16 Page 17 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.