UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Oregon water report shows stress on communities of color A changing climate, aging infrastructure and lack of sustained investment have resulted in stress on Oregon’s water systems, with communities of color disproportionately affected, according to a recent report by the Oregon Water Futures Project. Climate change a bigger threat to landscape biodiversity than emerald ash borer From the ‘City of Water’ to the Ghost-Monsters of Edo-Era Japan, Students Create a JSMA Exhibition “As a technology, water was harnessed, channeled both for domestic use and for industrial shipping lanes,” observed Emily Lawhead , a PhD student in the Department of the History of Art and Architecture (HAA). “Water also seeped its way into Edo mythology, where it emerged as ominous ghost-monsters and as a productive safety barrier between Japan and foreign realms.” How technology is changing traffic management and the future of commuting Anne Brown, assistant professor of planning, public policy, and management at the University of Oregon, provides expert comme COVID sparks a new 'right to food' movement across the globe Professor Michael Fakhri is quoted and mentioned. Climate skeptics not easily persuaded by available evidence, now or later Quantitative modeling by University of Oregon environmental economist predicts strong skeptics are unlikely to change their beliefs, even in the face of mounting evidence Oregon’s communities of color face clean drinking water inequities, report says The report says climate change, aging infrastructure and lack of investment in clean water have put extra stress on communities of color, especially those living in rural and low-income communities. Longhouse, museum in the works Todd Lawson began researching his lineage as an undergraduate studying architecture at the University of Oregon. Two Salem teens launch Philanthropy Phabrics, a new clothing business to 'redefine activism' Co-founder Kundai Kapurura lives in Eugene as a student at the University of Oregon. OSU student-led lab creates environmental sensing tools for landslides, vineyards This project is in partnership with the Sitka Sound Science Center and Annette Patton and Josh Roering of the University of Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 44 Page 45 Page 46 Page 47 Current page 48 Page 49 Page 50 Page 51 Page 52 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.