UO legal scholar laid the foundation for Montana lawsuit | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts UO legal scholar laid the foundation for Montana lawsuit August 21, 2023 - 12:46pm Twitter Facebook Through the nonprofit Our Children’s Trust, 16 Montana youths ages 5-22 sued the state for violating their constitutional rights to a clean environment. The plaintiffs in Held v. Montana made history this June when their lawsuit became the first such case to make it to trial. They reached another milestone Aug. 14, when Judge Kathy Seeley found their constitutional rights have been violated and rescinded a Montana law that prohibits considering greenhouse gases when evaluating permit requests for energy projects. Mary Christina Wood Philip H. Knight Professor of Law Mary Christina Wood of the UO School of Law is not involved in the youth climate lawsuit that’s making headlines. However, her research established the legal framework upon which the case, and others like it, are built. That framework is broadly known as atmospheric trust litigation. “It’s a landmark victory for the youth plaintiffs,” Wood said. “This ruling establishes a pivotal precedent.” The judge also affirmed that the state constitution’s guarantee of “a clean and healthful environment” includes climate. By pursuing atmospheric trust litigation, a phrase coined by Wood, young activists around the world are engaged in lawsuits like this one — and still fighting for their day in court. The ruling was good news for all of these youth, Wood said, because it established a new legal foothold and a viable model for courts to move forward. “All the citizens of Montana can take this opinion and apply it to relevant legal forums,” Wood said. “It defines the sidewalls of permissible activity. It’s a declaration of law, but it’s also a declaration of how to approach a climate trial. “The court put in the effort and created a methodology for sifting through climate science. The volume of evidence compiled by the judge and the length of her opinion demonstrate extensive judicial work. Other judges will take notice.” And all that work happened quickly. The seven-day trial ended June 20 and the ruling was made less than two months later. That set another important precedent. Because of the exigencies of climate chaos, judges must get comfortable rendering decisions quickly, said Wood, who is part of the UO's Environment Initiative . She emphasized the reverberations will go far beyond Montana. “This is going to have an impact on other cases,” she said. “There’s a similar trial scheduled in Hawaii next summer. You can bet that court (and courts around the world) will look at this opinion very closely. We’re dealing with a common planetary resource. It’s not cohesive yet, but an international body of law is emerging around climate change.” Wood’s foundational research planted the seed for this burgeoning legal sphere. “That’s what legal scholars do,” Wood said. “They envision and elaborate new theories of accountability  that others could take forward. I mapped a general strategy. But now you see that strategy being taken by attorneys into specific realms and being tailored to the laws of states and countries.” As momentum around atmospheric trust litigation builds, Wood hopes people will embrace their right to a stable climate system as fervently as their right to vote or free speech. None of our constitutional rights, she noted, offer much value on an uninhabitable planet. — By Ed Dorsch, University Communications — Top photo: The Montana state flag and a Lady Justice statue Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Academics & Research College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Academics and Research Philosophy prof is first at UO to win coveted Mellon fellowship People’s opinions influence their views of presidential norms UO experts lead research, share resources on withstanding wildfires Communicating numbers boosts trust in climate change science Study finds Latinx students who are studying abroad can face discrimination All Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.