Biden is campaigning as the most pro-climate president while his DOJ works to block a landmark climate trial | CNN Politics CNN values your feedback 1. How relevant is this ad to you? 2. Did you encounter any technical issues? Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues Cancel Submit Thank You! Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
                                        appreciated. Close Ad Feedback Close icon Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2024 Elections More SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2024 Elections Watch Listen Live TV Sign in My Account Settings Topics You Follow Sign Out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Sign in My Account Settings Topics You Follow Sign Out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch Edition US International Arabic Español Edition US International Arabic Español SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2024 Elections Follow CNN Politics US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2024 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Before the Bell Nightcap Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Watch Live TV CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Paris Olympics About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Ad Feedback Biden is campaigning as the most pro-climate president while his DOJ works to block a landmark climate trial By Ella Nilsen , CNN 5 minute read Published
        8:54 AM EDT, Wed August 9, 2023 Link Copied! Biden looks out over Grand Canyon National Park on Tuesday. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters CNN — As President Joe Biden touts his environmental record this week in the West – designating a new national monument at the Grand Canyon and highlighting legislative accomplishments like the Inflation Reduction Act – the US Department of Justice is waging a legal battle over whether a landmark youth climate lawsuit should even be allowed to go to trial. The case, Juliana v. United States , is a constitutional climate complaint first brought in 2015 by a group of 21 young people who are now aged 15 to 27. It argues that by continuing to burn planet-warming fossil fuels, the federal government is harming this young generation’s constitutionally provided rights to life, liberty and property. An appeals court struck down the case in 2021, but it has recently been given new life after a federal judge in Oregon ruled an amended case from the youth plaintiffs could proceed to trial. Constitutional climate cases are proceeding in several states , but the Juliana case could be the first federal case to go to trial, if it can make it past the Biden DOJ’s opposition. In a series of recent court filings, the federal government is arguing that instead of going to a trial, the case should move back to an appeals court. “It’s the worst kind of sequence because you don’t elaborate the facts in a court of law,” Mary Wood, an environmental law professor at the University of Oregon School of Law, told CNN, adding a trial is a “very important, crucial step in our litigation process.” “The world will be looking at this case, that’s for sure,” Wood said. Biden speaks with Ed Keable, superintendent of Grand Canyon National Park, on Tuesday. Jonathan Ernst/Reuters Much like the Trump and Obama administrations, Biden’s Department of Justice is arguing that the previous appeals court ruling found the youth plaintiffs have no legal standing, and the case shouldn’t make it inside a courtroom at all. In court filings, the DOJ has argued there is no federal public trust doctrine that creates a right for a stable climate system for US citizens, and that the government can’t be held liable for harm to the entire Earth’s atmosphere. FILE - Tony Berastegui Jr., right, and his sister Giselle Berastegui drink water, Monday, July 17, 2023, in Phoenix. A historic heat wave that turned the Southwest into a blast furnace throughout July is beginning to abate with the late arrival of the monsoon rains. Forecasters expect that by Monday, July 31, at the latest, people in metro Phoenix will begin seeing high temperatures under 110 degrees Fahrenheit (43.3 degrees Celsius) for the first time in a month. (AP Photo/Ross D. Franklin, File) Ross D. Franklin/AP Extreme heat is the deadliest natural disaster. FEMA can't treat it like one “The ‘climate system’ or atmosphere is not within any conceivable federal public trust,” federal attorneys said in a June filing, asking for the case to be dismissed. A DOJ spokesperson referred CNN to federal attorneys’ most recent filings to stay litigation in the case. Julia Olson, a lead attorney for the Juliana plaintiffs, said the Biden DOJ is fighting the case “as aggressively as the Trump administration.” And even with Biden touting his signature climate law this week, Olson said the administration hasn’t gone far enough to protect the country’s youth from the cascading impacts of continuing to burn fossil fuels. “Biden talks about the climate crisis in a different way,” said Olson, executive director and chief legal counsel for Our Children’s Trust. “But the actions on the ground, we are still supporting fossil fuel energy.” Hurdles ahead Legal experts told CNN that even if the case does go to trial, it will likely be a long road for youth plaintiffs. For one thing, the US DOJ is aided in its legal argument that, unlike some state constitutions, the US Constitution doesn’t specifically guarantee its citizens a stable climate or healthy environment. Our Children’s Trust lawyers recently brought a historic state climate case in front of a Montana judge this summer, arguing the state’s constitution provides that guarantee. A verdict is expected any day on that case. The DOJ likely views the case as an affront to separation of powers, and might be concerned it could then be applied broadly in future legal cases, climate law experts told CNN. “It’s one thing for courts to review individual government actions, but [another] for courts to take on the general operation of the government and say, ‘no you’ve got to change your whole overall policy,’” Daniel Farber, a climate law expert and University of California Berkeley Law School professor, told CNN. Kelsey Juliana of Eugene, Oregon, one of Juliana's lead plaintiffs, greets supporters outside a federal courthouse in Portland in 2019. Andrew Selsky/AP There’s also the inescapable fact that the current US Supreme Court is conservative and hasn’t ruled favorably for the climate and environment in recent cases. Farber told CNN that if the Juliana case proceeds, the odds are high the Supreme Court would intervene before the trial starts. “We’re all operating under the shadow of a conservative Supreme Court,” Columbia law school professor Michael Gerrard, director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law, told CNN. “This Supreme Court has been more about taking away rights than granting new ones.” Alan Sibaja wears a head covering for sun protection while working with a leaf blower amid the city's worst heat wave on record on July 24, 2023 in Phoenix, Arizona. Mario Tama/Getty Images July hit a crucial warming threshold that scientists have warned the world should stay under Gerrard added that the Biden administration has shown it wants to act on climate change by spurring clean energy, but “they don’t want anyone else to tell them what to do.” Farber, for one, sees state courts as more promising avenues to try climate cases. Legal observers and Our Children’s Trust attorneys are watching for a verdict to come in the Montana case. “Maybe if there’s real success there that could build a foundation later for something at the federal level,” Farber said. But Olson, the lead attorney for youth plaintiffs, said there is a potent political argument to be made that Biden’s administration should take Juliana seriously – given the increasing threat a warming planet poses to young people’s future. “President Biden has made all these promises to young people,” Olson said. “We do not want to see another Trump presidency, and Biden needs the youth vote. He really risks if he continues this approach in this litigation, he risks losing these young people.” Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Ad Feedback Sign in My Account Settings Topics You Follow Sign Out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Live TV Listen Watch US Crime + Justice World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2024 Elections Business Tech Media Calculators Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Fear & Greed Investing Markets Now Before the Bell Nightcap Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food & Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Watch Live TV CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max CNN TV Schedules Listen CNN 5 Things Chasing Life with Dr. Sanjay Gupta The Assignment with Audie Cornish One Thing Tug of War CNN Political Briefing The Axe Files All There Is with Anderson Cooper All CNN Audio podcasts CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Science Space Life Unearthed Climate Solutions Weather Weather Video Climate Ukraine-Russia War Israel-Hamas War Paris Olympics About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Politics Watch Listen Live TV Follow CNN Politics Sign in My Account Settings Topics You Follow Sign Out Your CNN account Sign in to your CNN account Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About Newsletters Transcripts © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.