Environment Initiative names six new faculty fellows | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Environment Initiative names six new faculty fellows June 30, 2023 - 4:49pm Twitter Facebook The University of Oregon’s Environment Initiative has named six faculty fellows for the 2023-24 academic year. The Environment Initiative Faculty Fellows Program provides funding to faculty members to complete a project that contributes to the goals of the initiative, which include leveraging environmental research and teaching toward social and environmental justice. The program aims to enhance transdisciplinary research and advance the initiative’s guiding principles . This is the third year of the fellowship program . “This year’s group of fellows exemplify the vision and principles of the Environment Initiative, and I am delighted to able to support their projects, each of which will contribute to our collective effort to build a just and livable future,” said Executive Director Adell Amos . The new fellows are: Lauren Hallett , associate professor of environmental studies and biology. A plant community ecologist with a goal of producing “usable” science to improve ecosystem management, Hallett will use her fellowship to work to enhance the sustainability of hazelnut agrosystems through relationship building and science coproduction with Willamette Valley hazelnut growers. Yekang Ko , associate professor of landscape architecture, and Yizhao Yang , associate professor of planning. Ko and Yang will codevelop a “Place-based Global Sustainability Competency Learning Framework” to enhance students’ sustainability competencies. The sustainability competency model will contribute to global efforts in environmental education. The framework offers a comprehensive approach to sustainability education that can be applied to a wide range of courses. Ellen Peters , Philip H. Knight Chair and Professor, and director of the Center for Science Communication Research. Peters will conduct transdisciplinary research that identifies strategies to uncover effective methods for communicating about solutions that drive people to action. Based on that research, Peters will build experiential-learning opportunities for students and postdocs in psychology and advertising, teaching scientific methods in psychology and communication to creative-focused students, and exposing research-oriented students to critical aspects of design and creativity. Peter Walker , professor of geography and environmental studies. Walker will monitor emerging Oregon wildfire policies, focusing on the role of inclusive community-based collaboratives. At the core of much of the activity to build community resilience is a deliberate effort to integrate both Native people and Indigenous knowledge such as cultural burning practices into community-based wildfire management. Walker’s research will examine the possibility that more inclusive and engaged responses to climate-driven wildfire can serve not only to address wildfire threats, but they can also contribute to revitalizing democracy. Mary Wood , Philip H. Knight Professor and faculty director of the Environmental and Natural Resources Law Center. Wood will work to further develop a Pacific Northwest Framework for Atmospheric Recovery, bringing together experts from universities, tribal nations, government entities and nonprofit organizations throughout the Northwest to accelerate the implementation of natural climate solutions in forests, agricultural lands, rangelands and grasslands in the region. The Environment Initiative focuses the intellectual energy and work of faculty members, students and community partners on working toward a just and livable future through transdisciplinary research, teaching and experiential learning. — By Tim Christie, University Communications Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Academics & Research College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Academics and Research Philosophy prof is first at UO to win coveted Mellon fellowship People’s opinions influence their views of presidential norms UO experts lead research, share resources on withstanding wildfires Communicating numbers boosts trust in climate change science Study finds Latinx students who are studying abroad can face discrimination All Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.