Warming and Drying Climate Puts Many of the World’s Biggest Lakes in Peril - Inside Climate News Skip to content Science Politics Justice & Health Fossil Fuels Clean Energy ICN Local Projects About Us Open Menu Pulitzer Prize-winning, nonpartisan reporting on the biggest crisis facing our planet. Donate Election 2024: What's at Stake for the Climate Close Menu Search Search for: Science Politics Justice & Health Fossil Fuels Clean Energy ICN Local Projects About Us Newsletters Contact Us Topics Activism Arctic Biodiversity & Conservation Business & Finance Climate Law & Liability Climate Treaties Denial & Misinformation Environment & Health Extreme Weather Food & Agriculture Fracking Nuclear Pipelines Plastics Regulation Super-Pollutants Water/Drought Wildfires Information About Jobs & Freelance Reporting Network Whistleblowers Memberships Ways to Give Fellows & Fellowships Publications E-Books Documents Science Warming and Drying Climate Puts Many of the World’s Biggest Lakes in Peril A new global study of lakes shows water levels falling and finds a global warming fingerprint. By Bob Berwyn May 18, 2023 Share this article Aerial view of an abandoned boat on a desert at the site of former Lake Poopó, near Punaca Tinta Maria, Bolivia, taken on October 15, 2022. Credit: Martín Silva/AFP via Getty Images Related How Wildfire Smoke from Australia Affected Climate Events Around the World Mono Lake Tribe Seeks to Assert Its Water Rights in Call For Emergency Halt of Water Diversions to Los Angeles How Decades of Hard-Earned Protections and Restoration Reversed the Collapse of California’s Treasured Mono Lake Share this article Water storage in many of the world’s biggest lakes has declined sharply in the last 30 years, according to a new study, with a cumulative drop of about 21.5 gigatons per year, an amount equal to the annual water consumption of the United States. The loss of water in natural lakes can “largely be attributed to climate warming,” a team of scientists said as they published research today in Science that analyzed satellite data from 1,980 lakes and reservoirs between 1992 and 2020. When they combined the satellite images with climate data and hydrological models, they found “significant storage declines” in more than half of the bodies of water. The combination of information from different sources also enabled the scientists to determine if the declines are related to climate factors, like increased evaporation and reduced river flows, or other impacts, including water diversions for agriculture or cities. A quarter of the world’s population lives in basins where lakes are drying up, they warned. Vanishing lakes have already caused starvation and dislocation, and increased the potential for international conflict, including in Africa, where Lake Chad is drying up, as well as in South America, where Bolivia’s Rhode Island-sized Lake Poopó, once the nation’s second largest body of water, disappeared over the last few decades. Explore the latest news about what’s at stake for the climate during this election season. Read The study identifies the southwestern U.S. as a troubled area, confirming the challenges spurred by dwindling water supplies in the nation’s two largest reservoirs, Lake Powell and Lake Meade on the Colorado River. The new study showed lake water storage loss prevailed across major global regions including much of interior Asia and the Middle East, northeastern Europe, as well Oceania, North and South America and southern Africa. A total of 457 natural lakes had significant water losses of about 38 gigatons per year, while 234 lakes showed water storage gains and 360—about a third of the studied lakes—showed no significant change. ​​Only about one-third of the total decline of water storage in drying lakes is offset by increases in other lakes, and the water bodies with rising levels are mainly in remote and sparsely populated regions like the Inner Tibetan Plateau, the Northern Great Plains in the U.S., and the Great Rift Valley in Africa. These storage increases were driven mainly by changes in precipitation and runoff, the study concluded. Uncertainty About the Great Lakes The research did not find a climate warming fingerprint affecting the Great Lakes, but that doesn’t mean it’s not there. During the 1992-2020 study period, water levels in the Great Lakes dropped steeply and then increased sharply again due to big swings in rainfall. The researchers’ analysis didn’t show a global warming signal, said lead author Fangfang Yao , who studies surface water changes at the Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences at the University of Colorado Boulder . “Lake Michigan-Huron shows no trend during our study period. Lakes Superior and Erie both of them show an overall increasing trend, suggesting the greater role of natural climate variability,” Yao said. While the research didn’t show their water levels significantly affected by global warming, the Great Lakes are being impacted by other climate extremes. Ice cover has declined significantly, lake temperatures have warmed and seasonal overturning water cycles have changed, making some parts of them more susceptible to toxic algal blooms and fish die-offs. The study raises warnings about multiple compounding climate impacts, said co-author Balaji Rajagopalan , associate chair of the Department of Civil, Environmental, and Architectural Engineerin g at the University of Colorado Boulder. The federal government’s 2018 National Climate Assessment projects the levels of Lakes Michigan and Huron will probably fall 6 inches by 2100, with other Great Lakes dropping by smaller amounts, but the assessment cautions that there is still a lot of uncertainty in those projections. Increasing Lake Sediment Cuts Storage Nearly two-thirds of all large reservoirs covered in the study experienced significant storage declines, but the picture is complicated by the fact that reservoirs overall showed a net increase in storage, due to the filling of newly created water storage lakes. Declines in the amount of water stored in reservoirs filled before 1982 “can be largely attributed to sedimentation,” the study found. “Globally, sedimentation-induced storage loss offsets more than 80% of the increased storage from new dam construction.” The study’s findings suggest that sediment build up is the main cause of the storage decline in existing reservoirs globally, the authors wrote, with a larger impact than variability in the climate’s water cycle. This story is funded by readers like you. Our nonprofit newsroom provides award-winning climate coverage free of charge and advertising. We rely on donations from readers like you to keep going. Please donate now to support our work. Donate Now The new study helps connect the climate change dots of global warming impacts to lakes, Rajagopalan said. The unique global lakes dataset came from “meticulously stitching disparate satellite information into a coherent time series of lake levels. Now we have this long, contiguous and homogeneous time series,” he said. “So now you can look at trends.” The large-scale decline in global surface water has real impacts for local populations across many regions of the world, said University of Oregon geographer and water researcher Sarah Cooley , who was not involved in the study. “Many of these local populations are dependent on lake water storage, whether for water supply, fishing and food supply, hydropower, irrigation, navigation, recreation,” she said. “I think the major takeaway of this study is that drying trends in lakes are prevalent worldwide, and perhaps more so than previously thought.” The findings complicate the “wet gets wetter” paradigm of global warming by identifying declines in lake water storage in humid regions, she added. “This is an important finding,” she said. “It emphasizes the fact that we should not expect increases in water availability in humid regions to offset declines in lake water storage in arid regions.” The decline of lake water storage documented by the new research could also have other climate effects, said Benjamin Kraemer , a lake researcher at the University of Konstanz, in Germany, who was not involved in the study. “We already know that when water levels decrease, sediments that were previously submerged become exposed to the air,” Kraemer said. “This exposure can spark microbial activity and decomposition of organic matter in the sediments leading to the release of CO2, methane, and other gases. Thus, decreased water levels can potentially increase greenhouse gas emissions from exposed sediments. The drop in water levels documented in the study could have large implications for climate change.” He said dropping water levels can exacerbate other environmental threats. “Many of the lakes shown as declining by the study are also facing changes in temperature, nutrients, neobiota, and pollution,” he said. “Merging all of these stressors into a complete picture of threats to lakes remains a major challenge ahead for lake science.” About This Story Perhaps you noticed: This story, like all the news we publish, is free to read. That’s because Inside Climate News is a 501c3 nonprofit organization. We do not charge a subscription fee, lock our news behind a paywall, or clutter our website with ads. We make our news on climate and the environment freely available to you and anyone who wants it. That’s not all. We also share our news for free with scores of other media organizations around the country. Many of them can’t afford to do environmental journalism of their own. We’ve built bureaus from coast to coast to report local stories, collaborate with local newsrooms and co-publish articles so that this vital work is shared as widely as possible. Two of us launched ICN in 2007. Six years later we earned a Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting, and now we run the oldest and largest dedicated climate newsroom in the nation. We tell the story in all its complexity. We hold polluters accountable. We expose environmental injustice. We debunk misinformation. We scrutinize solutions and inspire action. Donations from readers like you fund every aspect of what we do. If you don’t already, will you support our ongoing work, our reporting on the biggest crisis facing our planet, and help us reach even more readers in more places? Please take a moment to make a tax-deductible donation. Every one of them makes a difference. Thank you, David Sassoon Founder and Publisher Vernon Loeb Executive Editor Share this article Bob Berwyn Reporter, Austria Bob Berwyn an Austria-based reporter who has covered climate science and international climate policy for more than a decade. Previously, he reported on the environment, endangered species and public lands for several Colorado newspapers, and also worked as editor and assistant editor at community newspapers in the Colorado Rockies. @bberwyn [email protected] Newsletters We deliver climate news to your inbox like nobody else. Every day or once a week, our original stories and digest of the web's top headlines deliver the full story, for free. ICN Weekly Inside Clean Energy Today's Climate Breaking News Email Address I agree to the terms of service and privacy policy . Related How Wildfire Smoke from Australia Affected Climate Events Around the World By Bob Berwyn Mono Lake Tribe Seeks to Assert Its Water Rights in Call For Emergency Halt of Water Diversions to Los Angeles By Bob Berwyn How Decades of Hard-Earned Protections and Restoration Reversed the Collapse of California’s Treasured Mono Lake By Bob Berwyn Most Popular ‘Not Caused by an Act of God’: In a Rare Court Action, an Oregon County Seeks to Hold Fossil Fuel Companies Accountable for Extreme Temperatures By Victoria St. Martin VP Candidate Tim Walz Has Deep Connections to Agriculture and Conservation By Georgina Gustin A Legal Fight Over Legacy Oil Industry Pollution Heats Up in West Texas By Martha Pskowski Science First Snow, then Heat Interrupt a Hike From Mexico to Canada, as Climate Complicates an Iconic Adventure Impassible snow foiled my 2019 hike of the Pacific Crest Trail, and my return to that section this summer was “flip-flopped” by record heat. In the weeks ahead, I’m backpacking to see how climate is changing wildfires, water and wildlife on the famed wild path. By Bing Lin NOAA Affirms Expectations for Extraordinarily Active Hurricane Season Debby Drenched the Southeast. Climate Change Is Making Storms Like This Even Wetter Keep Environmental Journalism Alive ICN provides award-winning climate coverage free of charge and advertising. We rely on donations from readers like you to keep going. Donate Now Science Politics Justice & Health Fossil Fuels Clean Energy Home About Contact Us Whistleblowers Privacy Policy Inside Climate News uses cookies. By continuing to use this site, you accept this policy. Learn More Accept