Awards & Accolades | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Awards & Accolades Awards & Accolades University of Oregon employees strive for excellence in teaching, research, artistic expression, and the generation and application of knowledge. They are frequently honored for their research, scholarship, teaching, leadership and service that exemplifies individual excellence and delivers on our institutional purpose. Recognizing individual achievements acknowledges contributions to the UO and their profession and celebrates accomplishments such as grants, honors and fellowships, elections to regional and national boards or committees in professional organizations, and other career awards. Congratulations to the honorees. Submit an Accolade UO Sponsored Awards Search August 2, 2024 Kevin Nute awarded a residency at Frank Lloyd Wright’s Fallingwater Kevin Nute , professor emeritus in the College of Design's School of Architecture and Environment , received a funded residency at Fallingwater , Frank Lloyd Wright's iconic modernist home. Nute will study the house's timeless elements, building on his recent book "Embodied Time: Temporal Cues in Built Spaces." July 15, 2024 Sara Schmitt awarded grant for early childhood curriculum evaluation Sara Schmitt , an associate professor in the College of Education , has been awarded a $4 million grant from the Institute of Education Sciences to evaluate the Early Learning Matters curriculum. The grant supports a multi-state project involving seven universities to address disparities in access to high-quality early childhood education. June 24, 2024 Vera Keller shortlisted for Pfizer Award Vera Keller, professor in the College of Arts and Sciences , Department of History , has been shortlisted for the 2023 Pfizer Award for outstanding books on the history of science. Keller was nominated for her work " The Interlopers: Early Stuart Projects and the Undisciplining of Knowledge ." June 13, 2024 Ariel Williamson named Sleep Research Society's 2024 Rising Star Ariel Williamson , an assistant professor at the Ballmer Institute for Children's Behavioral Health and in the Department of Psychology , has been honored by the Sleep Research Society as one of two Rising Stars for 2024 . She was recognized in the Clinician Investigator category for her outstanding contributions to the field of sleep science. The award recognizes early career investigators within the society community for innovations in scientific research, service delivery, dissemination, mentorship and/or public policy. May 17, 2024 Cengiz Zopluoglu receives Duolingo Research Grant for cheating detection Cengiz Zopluoglu , an associate professor in the College of Education , has been awarded the Duolingo Competitive Research Grant to support his project to develop statistical methods to detect cheating in large-scale language assessments, with a particular focus on the Duolingo English test. May 16, 2024 Theodore Fremd named AAAS fellow Theodore Fremd , courtesy research associate and adjunct curator, Museum of Natural and Cultural History , was named to the 2023 class of fellows by the American Association for the Advancement of Science . Fremd is being recognized "for outstanding research in vertebrate paleontology and public outreach at John Day Fossil Beds National Monument." May 13, 2024 Deborah Morrison joins One Club for Creativity's Educators Hall of Fame Deborah Morrison , professor of advertising in the School of Journalism and Communication , has been inducted into The One Club for Creativity’s Educators Hall of Fame . The nonprofit advertising organization is a world leader for creative excellence in advertising and design. The honor recognizes Morrison’s career of educational innovation, industry leadership, and advocacy for societal issues. May 10, 2024 Arafaat Valiani awarded NEH grant Arafaat Valiani , associate professor in the College of Arts and Sciences , Department of History , received an NEH Dangers and Opportunities of Technologies: Perspectives from the Humanities grant . His project involves ethnographic research culminating in several scholarly articles and a monograph exploring the impact of precision medicine on health disparities. April 22, 2024 Judith Eisen wins George Streisinger Award Judith Eisen , professor in the College of Arts and Sciences , Department of Biology , has been honored with the 2024 George Streisinger Award by the International Zebrafish Society. This award recognizes Eisen for her sustained and foundational work in the field of zebrafish research. April 15, 2024 Yvette Saavedra wins Antonia I. Castaneda Prize Yvette Saavedra , an associate professor in the College of Arts and Sciences , Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies , has been awarded the 2024 Antonia I. Castañeda Prize for her article "Speaking for Themselves: Rancheras and Respectability in Mexican California, 1800-1850," by the National Association for Chicana and Chicano Studies. This annual prize is awarded to historical scholarship that examines the intersections of class, race, gender and sexuality, particularly related to Chicana/Latina and/or Native/Indigenous women. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 … Next page Next › Last page Last » UO Sponsored Awards & Recognition Programs OFFICE OF THE PROVOST Teaching and Scholarship Awards OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION Research Awards UNIVERSITY OF OREGON SENATE Service Awards HUMAN RESOURCES ​​​​​Employee Awards For assistance applying for external funding and awards or developing competitive proposals, visit the Research Development Services webpage. Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.