Seven research teams get Resilience Initiative seed funding | Oregon News Skip to main content Resources for: For Journalists One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Oregon News Menu Academics & Research Academics & Research Overview College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Campus News Student Success Workplace Workplace Overview Campus Resources Campus Resources Overview Equity and Inclusion Faculty and Staff Resources President's Office Risk Management Information Services UO Alerts Faculty Resources Faculty Resources Overview Office of the Provost Research and Innovation Human Resources Human Resources Overview Human Resources Website Benefits Learning and Development Work-Life Resources Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Experts Overview Artificial Intelligence Business COVID-19 Earthquakes and Volcanoes Education Environment, Sustainability and Climate Change Health Housing and Homelessness Law Mental Health Olympics Politics Society, Culture and Arts STEM Wildfire and Smoke Resources for: For Journalists Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Oregon News Primary Navigation Academics & Research Campus News Student Success Workplace Oregon Quarterly Awards Experts Seven research teams get Resilience Initiative seed funding December 16, 2019 - 12:01pm Twitter Facebook Seven interdisciplinary research teams addressing major areas around sustainability, resilience and climate change have received seed grants through the Resilience Initiative seed funding program. Sponsored by the Office of the Vice President of Research and Innovation, the Resilience Initiative supports existing collaborations and fosters the development of new, diverse interdisciplinary teams. The seed funding program funds two types of convening grants of up to $10,000: one that will bring together new faculty research teams and one meant to inspire collaboration with outside partners. A pilot grant will provide seed funds of up to $50,000 for faculty members to engage in more structured research and scholarship activities and is designed to position them to obtain grants and other external research funding. The seed funding program also includes a mechanism for one deeply interdisciplinary team to receive support for a two-year postdoctoral scholar position. The project topics and grant recipients are: Convening grants: Oregon’s water future: Climate change, environmental disasters and community resilience. Alai Reyes-Santos, Department of Indigenous, Race, and Ethnic Studies. An integrative collaborative research network focused on the human dimension of environmental change in Southeast Asia. Kathie Carpenter, Department of International Studies; Alison Carter, Department of Anthropology; Estelle Chaussard, Department of Earth Sciences; Krista McGuire, Department of Biology; Tuong Vu, Department of Political Science/Department of Asian Studies. Piloting grants: Co-producing restorative fire: A transdisciplinary approach to indigenous fire stewardship and the restoration of forest resilience. Michael Coughlan, Institute for a Sustainable Environment; Bart Johnson, Department of Landscape Architecture; Kari Norgaard, Department of Sociology; Dan Gavin, Department of Geography. Moving Eugene more sustainably: What affects transportation choices in downtown Eugene. Rebecca Lewis and Yizhao Yang, School of Planning, Public Policy and Management. Integrated social, environmental and economic justice framework to build resilient communities for vulnerable unhoused populations. Yekang Ko, Department of Landscape Architecture. Grid enhancing resilient housing. Kevin Van Den Wymelenberg, Department of Architecture; Kory Russel, Department of Landscape Architecture; Heather Brinton, School of Law; Josh Skov, Lundquist College of Business. Postdoctoral scholar: Resilience, ice and society: Probing the timescales of human interactions with cryospheric change. Dave Sutherland, Department of Earth Sciences; Mark Carey, Clark Honors College. “These collaborations span some of our greatest areas of strength and address some of our most urgent social and environmental challenges,” said Cass Moseley, senior associate vice president for research and innovation. “We congratulate these seven teams and we look forward to seeing what kinds of creative and innovative solutions will result from these inspired projects.” Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Academics & Research College of Arts and Sciences Lundquist College of Business College of Design College of Education Graduate Studies Knight Campus Research and Innovation Robert D. Clark Honors College School of Journalism and Communication School of Law UO Libraries School of Music and Dance UO Alumni Academics and Research Philosophy prof is first at UO to win coveted Mellon fellowship People’s opinions influence their views of presidential norms UO experts lead research, share resources on withstanding wildfires Communicating numbers boosts trust in climate change science Study finds Latinx students who are studying abroad can face discrimination All Academics and Research Submit Your Story Idea Campus Events Maps Directions Academic Calendar UO Libraries Resources for Media Oregon Experts For Journalists For Faculty and Staff Contact Us Oregon News Submit Your Story Idea About Oregon News UO Portland News and Events Oregon News 1239 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 uonews@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.