Environmental Leadership Program | UO UO Environment Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Environmental Leadership Program Environmental Leadership Program The Environmental Leadership Program is an interdisciplinary community-based learning program that matches student teams with non-profit organizations, government agencies and businesses to address community-defined environmental issues. View the Program Page With the overarching goal of fostering reciprocal and mutually-beneficial partnerships between students and community organizations, the Environmental Leadership Program provides: Undergraduate students with unique and practical learning experiences that develop their professional, leadership, technical, problem-solving, collaboration, and communication experience and skills; Graduate students with project management, mentoring, and team-building experience and skills; and Organizations with high-quality services that further their missions. Projects Projects fall within one of our four focal areas: Conservation Science in Action projects where students assist community partners. Environmental Education projects where students develop, implement, and share transformative learning experiences for children in nature. Community Engagement and Justice projects where students work directly with communities to address our pressing environmental and social justice issues. Sustainable Practices projects where students implement solutions that address and integrate concerns regarding environmental health, social equity, and economic success. See past projects Meet the Undergraduates Graduate Students Faculty Partners Apply for the ELP Visit the Environmental Leadership Program website for application information. ​​​​​ The Environmental Leadership Program is open to undergraduates with at least junior standing, although priority consideration will be given to Environmental Studies and Environmental Science majors. Katie Lynch ( klynch@uoregon.edu ) and Peg Boulay ( boulay@uoregon.edu ) are available to answer questions about the application process. ELP Homepage UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.