UO Environment | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu UO Environment Menu Faculty Excellence News Events About About Overview Our Team Faculty Advisory Committee Faculty Fellows Program Environment Initiative Seed Funding Program Resources IHP Criteria Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give UO Environment Main navigation Faculty Excellence News Events About Homepage The UO’s Environment Initiative, after three foundational and pathbreaking years of work, is transitioning to a new, sustainable model. This new endeavor, known as UO Environment, will leverage institutional expertise in education, research, and impact on the major environmental issues facing our world. Through UO Environment, the College of Arts and Sciences will work with other colleges and schools to carry forward curricular and other work begun under the initiative to grow educational and research opportunities at UO. In addition, the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation is working with faculty leaders to explore the creation of a new center on climate change solutions policy, as well as a number of other areas of research. This web site will serve as a communications hub for news and events across the entire campus. CURRICULUM The College of Arts and Sciences will continue the transdisciplinary curricular work begun under the initiative in conjunction with other colleges and schools. POLICY The exploration of a new center under OVPRI is underway, intended to work with communities on climate solutions, policies, and research. RESEARCH Learn about the work UO faculty are conducting that is making an impact in the world. NEWS & EVENTS See the noteworthy environment-related updates and events happening on campus and in the community. Events Book talk | ¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice! Join SCR Associate Dr. Catalina De Onís this month when she will lecture on her SCR Small Grant Program funded bilingual children's book “¡Juntes por la justicia climática! Together for Climate Justice!". During her book talk and signing she will describe the role of her student coauthors and the importance of teaching climate justice to new generations. BE Passionate with Steph Littlebird Join the SAB Arts & Culture team as we welcome Steph Littlebird for her free dinner presentation BE Passionate in the EMU Ballroom on November 21st.

Doors & Dinner: 5:00pm 
Presentation: 6pm-7:00pm followed by Q&A 7-7:30pm Oregon Wildfire Resilience Hoopathon Meet community fire organizations and local artisans, shoot free throws, and support wildfire resilience and Indigenous land management!
Open to students, faculty, staff, community members, and more. Faculty Excellence See the work that University of Oregon faculty are producing to make an impact on the world » Danny Pimentel Pimentel's work in virtual reality seeks to make a global problem like climate change into something you can experience on a personal level. Greg Dotson Dotson will work towards situating the Environment Initiative in the community of researchers, policy advocates and policymakers who are focused on climate mitigation in the energy sector. Marsha Weisiger Weisiger will advance several projects focused on environmental history that analyze and interpret the ways humans and nonhuman nature have shaped each other over time. News Invisible Stewards of the Soil Ashley Shaw, postdoctoral researcher in the Institute of Ecology and Evolution, is featured. Common Reading selects 'Braiding Sweetgrass' for 2021 With the goal of continuing conversations about diversity and environmental justice, the UO Common Reading program has chos Two UO professors awarded 2021 Sustainability Teaching Awards Rachel DiNitto, professor of East Asian Languages and Literatures, and Diana Garvin, professor of Romance Languages, have been awarded with the 2021 University of Oregon Sustainability Award for Excellence in Teaching. Bike Month adapts to keep people riding during the pandemic WeBikeLane.org has a full lineup of socially distanced rides, online talks and classes, bike discounts at local businesses, and prizes for all ages and riding abilities. Bike Month focuses on celebrating the benefits of biking and works to make biking accessible to everyone, regardless of age or skill level. Workshops offer tips for people interested in electric vehicles Members of the University of Oregon community are invited to learn more about electric vehicles, also called “EVs” at two upcoming, online workshops. The UO's inaugural Week of Research will kick off May 24 Co-organized by the Office of the Vice President for Research and Innovation and the Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success , the inaugural Week of Research will be held remotely and is open to students, faculty members and staff. Roots of Wellness: Afro-Indigenous knowledge of Caribbean Women Healers Caribbean Women Healers is a University of Oregon digital humanities project focused on contemporary diversity within Afro-Indigenous knowledge traditions and featuring elders who currently live and work in Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, and the US Pacific Northwest. Natural Resources Legal Scholar Discusses Biden’s Public Lands Protections Marcilynn Burke, dean of the University of Oregon School of Law, cautioned against unwarranted optimism about the Biden administration’s commitment to public lands protections during an April 7 lecture sponsored by the University of Colorado Law School. Environmental Studies faculty teams receive I3 seed funding program awards The seed funding from Incubating Interdisciplinary Initiatives, known as I3, will provide $50,000 collectively to the research teams. Geri Richmond nominated for a top post in US Energy Department Geraldine Richmond, the UO’s Presidential Chair in Science and a much-honored professor of chemistry, has been nominated to serve in the Biden administration as undersecretary for science in the Department of Energy. Pagination First page « First Previous page ‹‹ … Page 45 Page 46 Page 47 Page 48 Current page 49 Page 50 Page 51 Page 52 Page 53 … Next page ›› Last page Last » UO ENVIRONMENT Faculty Excellence News Events About Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.