Understanding Verification of Your FAFSA | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Understanding Verification of Your FAFSA What is verification and why was I selected? Verification is the process schools are required to use to confirm the data reported on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is accurate. If selected for verification, this does not necessarily mean there are mistakes, or you have done something wrong. Roughly one third of all FAFSAs filed may be selected for verification. If you are selected for verification, the University of Oregon (UO) will notify you via email after you submit your FAFSA. This notification will outline the next steps and actions needed to complete verification. Once all necessary documentation is provided to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships office, we will use the information provided to confirm that the data reported on the FAFSA matches the documentation provided. If it does not match, our office will correct the information on the FAFSA and submit the updated information to Federal Student Aid for processing. If there is incomplete or conflicting information, we may reach out to you requesting clarification or additional documentation. When do completed verification documents need to be turned in? If you have outstanding verification requirements, you will not be eligible to receive financial aid until the requirements are processed, this can take up to three to four weeks during our busiest times. Verification documents should be submitted to our office within 30 days of receiving notification of outstanding requirements and no later than August 1 to ensure timely processing prior to the beginning of the academic year. Certain funds are limited; failure to supply our office with the requested documents in a timely manner may result in loss of priority funds. Once you are no longer enrolled or the aid year is over, it may be too late to disburse any financial aid. To avoid any delays in your financial aid, please complete your verification requirements in a timely manner. How do I view my outstanding verification requirements? Log onto duckweb.uoregon.edu Click on Financial Aid Menu Click on Eligibility and Requirements Select aid year View unsatisfied requirements *Note: Incoming freshman and transfer students will view their outstanding requirements on the Application Status Portal . Verification Forms and Worksheets Submit Verification Documents How do I prepare and submit my documents? Review your outstanding requirements on DuckWeb (Incoming students check their Application Status Portal ). Select the requirement to view complete instructions to satify the requirement. Double check: Are you submitting the proper forms requested? Are the documents and forms for the correct aid year? Are your forms complete? Is the student’s name and UO ID number included on all documents? Are your documents signed? (Typed or auto-generated electronic signatures are not accepted) Avoid making corrections to your FAFSA unless directed. We will make any changes to your FAFSA on your behalf. Submit your completed forms using our: Financial Aid Secure Contact Form You may also submit your completed forms in person to: Oregon Hall 287 Mail your forms to: Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon 97401 Fax: 541-346-1175 Next Steps The initial review of documents can take 2-4 weeks after submission of all documents. Incomplete or missing documents may delay timely processing. Our team will reach out to you via email if we require any additional information. Tips for Success Use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool on the FAFSA. Fewer applications are selected for verification if the IRS Data Retrieval Tool is used, and the data is not altered after being imported. Need a copy of your tax forms? You can request a tax return transcript or non-filer letter from the IRS. Submit documents as soon as possible. Since the FAFSA uses ‘prior-prior’ year tax information, almost all applicants will have actual income information available to use when completing the FAFSA and be able to provide a copy to the financial aid office, if requested. Be as accurate as possible; incomplete submissions extend the process Contact us if you have any questions or you would like to discuss any unusual circumstances Contact Us Why did my financial aid offer change after verification? Current and returning students who are selected for verification will not receive a financial aid offer until verification is complete. However, some students may be selected for verification after they have received a financial aid offer. In those cases, we are required to complete verification prior to making any future disbursements. We may be required to return financial aid that was already disbursed if it is determined that a student was ineligible for financial aid after verification is complete. If your financial aid eligibility changes, we will revise your financial aid offer accordingly and notify you via email of the revision. The revised aid offer can be viewed by logging onto DuckWeb. Incoming freshmen and incoming transfer students may receive a financial aid offer prior to verification completion, based on the information provided on their FAFSA. In these cases, the financial aid offer is considered tentative and may change once verification is complete. Please keep in mind that although incoming students receive their financial aid offer prior to verification, aid will not be disbursed until the verification process has been completed. My income changed and I want to request a review of my financial circumstances. Do I still need to submit my verification documents? Yes, if your application was selected for verification. All applications selected for verification must complete the verification process prior to our office reviewing special circumstance requests. Referrals of Fraud After conducting a review, if any credible information indicates that an applicant may have engaged in fraud or other criminal misconduct in connection with their application (including, but not limited to verification) for federal student aid, we will refer the relevant information for further investigation to the Office of Inspector General (OIG) within the U.S. Department of Education. Purposely giving false or misleading information may be a student conduct violation and a crime under state or federal law. If you have any questions about the verification process, please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships. Verification Resources Submit Verification Documents Verification Worksheets Parent Income Verification Student Income Verification Student Income Verification (Non-Tax Filer) RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.