UO Excellence Scholarship | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home UO Excellence Scholarship Nonresident first-year students with exceptional admissions applications and stellar academic records will automatically be considered for the UO Excellence Scholarship. A limited number of these prestigious awards are available. Award Information The UO Excellence Scholarship awards a limited number of incoming fall 2025 nonresident top scholars $80,000 over four years — $20,000 per year (annual award is split evenly over fall, winter, and spring terms). The UO Excellence Scholarship can be combined with other UO scholarships, including Diversity Excellence and General University Scholarships . It cannot be combined with the Stamps Scholarship , Summit Scholarship or the Apex Scholarship . Students enrolled in five-year degree programs will receive the UO Excellence Scholarship for a fifth year. These degrees include BLA (landscape architecture), BIARC (interior architecture), and BARCH (architecture). You must enroll at the UO in the fall term of your first year and you must enroll in 12 University of Oregon credits each term to receive this award. Selection Criteria A limited number of awards are available to the highest achieving nonresident students. Consideration and selection is based on review of the admissions application and academic transcripts. How to Apply You will be automatically considered for the UO Excellence Scholarship—no separate application is required. You must simply: Apply for admission by January 15 . Submit all required admission applications materials to the Office of Admissions by February 15 . Scholarship Renewal UO Excellence Scholarships are renewable for up to 12 academic terms (excluding summer) within a five-year period, or 15 academic terms within a six-year period for students seeking a BLA, BIARC, or BARCH degree. If you graduate prior to using all of the terms of the scholarship, any remaining terms not used will be forfeited. Renewal awards require a minimum 3.00 cumulative UO GPA and completion of 12 UO credits per term / 36 UO credits per year. Award Notification Recipients of UO Excellence Scholarship will be notified by April 1. Complete Terms and Conditions can be found here . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.