Saving and Investing | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Back to Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Menu Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Highlighted Subsections Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Highlighted Subsections Budgeting Obtaining Scholarships Planning for Student Loans Credit Management Saving and Investing Post-Grad Life Breadcrumb Home Financial Wellness Saving and Investing Learning to save money and invest early on, will enable students to carry on good habits that will lead to accumulating wealth at an earlier age.  The habits developed while in college can carry on into adulthood and the first job. The key to saving is not how much, it’s being consistent. Though some students may not have a job in college, strong habits could be developed by managing any allowance money from family members or even saving a portion of any gifts received.  As students begin to make money, the habit of saving should follow along with their future earnings. The Financial Wellness Center helps students to identify savings opportunities and establish goals that fit each individual’s unique situation. Investing Investing is one of the ways in which money can begin to work for you and offer an additional stream of income. Students are often times curious about investing, but have little to no understanding about how or where to start.   Working with the financial wellness center, students can learn about types of investments, tips on where to get started, and even best practices when searching for a financial adviser post-graduation. Types of Investments Stocks Bonds Mutual funds (which provide a mechanism to invest in a combination of stocks, bonds, and/or other types of investments) Annuities Commodities Retirement How to Get Started Finding a Financial Advisor Finding a trusted advisor to help you reach short- and long-term financial goals can be challenging. Here are a few tips offered by FINRA: Understand that you first need to have a budgeting process in place so that you walk into all meetings with a basic understanding of your situation. Check with family members and close friends where you can potentially get a reference. Be sure you do your own research about the background of the advisor you are looking to work with.  It’s okay to ask questions such as who have they worked with in the past that may potentially provide a reference. Ask about fee structures and how the advisor will make money while being your trusted advisor. Check out Nerdwallet’s tips . Research the background and experience of financial brokers, advisers, and firms . Apps and Brokers Robinhood Acorns TDAmeritrade Merrill Edge Twine (app for collaborative goals/saving) Charles Schwab Top 10 Tips for Getting Started Build a budget to find out if you have money to invest If you have money to invest, make investments a fixed cost every month for consistency and discipline Start early Identify your risk tolerance Identify your needs, goals, and timeline Educate yourself on the different types of investments Do the research to find what brokerage platform works best for you Stay informed to understand what you are investing in (where your money is going) Diversify your portfolio Be patient; think long-term strategies Books and Podcasts Recommended by Other Students Books The Intelligent Investor by Benjamin Graham Broke Millennial by Erin Lowry Broke Millennial Takes on Investin g by Erin Lowry The Essays of Warren Buffet The Smartest Portfolio You’ll Ever Own by Daniel R. Solin Podcasts "Money Tree Investing" podcast "Invest Like the Best" podcast The Investors Podcast Network "We Study Billionaires" "Bitcoin Fundamentals" "Millennial Investing" "Real Estate 101" Resources Investment Resources Glossary J.P. Morgan Glossary of Investment Terms Beginner's Guide to Asset Classes How to Start Investing in Stocks: A Beginner's Guide Introduction to Investing Save and Invest How to Start Investing: A Guide for Beginners RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.