Graduate Student Cost of Attendance | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Graduate Student Cost of Attendance The figures provided are estimates for planning purposes only. Because tuition costs vary from program to program, you may calculate more specific tuition estimates on the UO Tuition website . 2023-24 Graduate Student Cost of Attendance 2024–25 Graduate Cost of Attendance Residents Nonresidents Tuition and Fees Based on full-time enrollment (9–16 credits per term) $19,473 $33,378 Living Expenses (Housing and Food) Monthly costs: housing $1,327; food $433 $15,846 $15,846 Books, Course Materials, Supplies, and Equipment $1,362 $1,362 Miscellaneous Personal Expenses $2,538 $2,538 Transportation $444 $1,422 Estimated Total $39,663 $54,546 Entering Students Students beginning their first term at the University of Oregon should add the following: Matriculation Fee $526 Fees The tuition and fees figure above includes mandatory fees all students must pay. Visit UO Mandatory Fees for more information. The cost of attendance does not include course fees nor does it include the one-time matriculation fee. Read answers to frequently asked questions about the matriculation fee. What's Included The cost of attendance includes the following estimated costs: Tuition and fees Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment Living expenses (housing and food) Transportation Miscellaneous personal expenses Requests for additional school-related expenses , such as: childcare, purchasing a computer, sole occupancy for undergraduates, study abroad expenses, disability related expenses, and more are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The University of Oregon may also recognize certain expenses related to the cost of obtaining a license, certification, or first professional credential if required to enter your profession. The costs must be incurred while the student is still enrolled at the UO, even if the exam itself is taken after the period of enrollment. An example might include expenses related to taking the Law Bar Exam . Some costs, such as personal expenses and living expenses for students that live off campus, are difficult to project and vary from student to student. We recommend you create a budget to estimate your costs more precisely. In This Section Honors College Cost of Attendance Graduate Cost of Attendance Law Cost of Attendance RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.