Scholarships for First-Year Students | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Scholarships for First-Year Students Hero Envelope Title Hero Envelope Text Call to Action Scholarships for Incoming First-Year Students Some scholarships for incoming first-year students require an additional, separate application. Others are awarded automatically based on the materials in your undergraduate application for admission and/or the financial information on your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). See the chart below for an overview, as well as links to scholarship details and their online application. First-Year Student Scholarships Applicants must meet all admission deadlines to be considered for scholarships. Eligibility criteria, deadlines, and other important details are provided on each of the scholarship web pages linked below. Oregon Resident Nonresident Loading... Learn how the UO determines residency status . First-Year Student Scholarships Residents Automatic Consideration Summit $5,000 per year Apex $2,000 per year IB Diploma Scholarships $1,000-$3,000 per year General University $1,500 PathwayOregon Tuition and fees Staton $6,000 per year National Merit $2,000 per year Additional Application Required Stamps Tuition, fees, enrichment funds, food and housing Presidential $9,000 per year Diversity Excellence $7,500 per year Home Flight Tuition and Fees Non-Residents Automatic Consideration UO Excellence $20,000 per year Summit $12,500 per year Apex $10,000 per year IB Diploma Scholarships $2,000-$6,000 per year General University $1,500 National Merit $2,000 per year Additional Application Required Stamps Tuition and fees Diversity Excellence $7,500 per year Apply for UO Scholarships The UO Scholarship Dashboard is your entry point for scholarships offered by the UO Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships, and for select colleges and departments. 1) Apply for Admission Before applying for scholarships, you must submit an application for admission to the University of Oregon. If you are already an enrolled student, skip to step 3. Apply Here 2) Locate your UO Student ID Within days of applying for admission, you can find your UO Student ID number in your Status Portal. You’ll need this number to create an account to apply for UO scholarships. 3) Log into the Dashboard Log in to the UO Scholarship Dashboard and apply for scholarships. Dashboard Login Here The University of Oregon Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships partners with outside servicers to streamline access for students and applicants to many scholarship opportunities offered by the university. NexGen Scholarship Manager delivers our scholarship application, and matching and selection software. For more on the partnerships between the UO and this provider, please contact us . Departmental Scholarships If you are entering the UO as a music or journalism major, you may be able to earn or apply for scholarships offered by your department. Music Scholarships Journalism Scholarships In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.