Scholarships for Continuing and Transfer Students | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Scholarships for Continuing and Transfer Students For more information, including award amounts and deadlines, click on the name of the scholarship. University-Wide Scholarships University-wide scholarships are offered centrally through the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships. Scholarship Basis for Award Additional Application Deadline General University Academic and extracurricular Yes (non freshmen only) All continuing UO students : General University Scholarship application and letter of recommendation are due February 28 . Incoming undergraduate transfer students : Application for admission is due March 15 . General University Scholarship application and letter of recommendation are due April 1 . Transcripts are due to the Office of Admissions by April 1 . Home Flight Oregon Resident, Enrolled member of one of the 574 federally recognized Tribes Yes All continuing UO students : Submit FASFA/ORSAA first, then apply for Home Flight no later than the last day of finals week each term. Incoming undergraduate transfer students : Apply for Admission and submit FASFA/ORSAA first, then apply for Home Flight no later than the last day of finals week each term. Diversity Excellence Financial need; academic and extracurricular; contribution to the UO's diversity mission Yes All continuing UO students : Diversity Excellence Scholarship application and letter of recommendation are due February 28 . FAFSA/ORSAA are due March 1 . Incoming undergraduate transfer students : Application for admission is due March 15 . Complete the FAFSA/ORSAA by March 1 . Diversity Excellence Scholarship application and letter of recommendation are due April 1 . Transcripts are due to the Office of Admissions by April 1 . Departmental Scholarships Many individual UO schools and departments offer scholarships to students studying a specific major or discipline. Follow the links below to learn more or use the department index to contact your department directly. College of Arts and Sciences College of Education Lundquist College of Business Robert D. Clark Honors College College of Design School of Journalism and Communication School of Music and Dance Interdisciplinary Scholarships Other UO programs can also help you find funding, including these: Health Professions Program International Student & Scholar Services Office of the Dean of Students McNair Scholars Program Nontraditional Student Programs Study Abroad Programs NSF Science Pathways Find Other Scholarships Don't limit your search to the UO—there are lots of places to find scholarships . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.