Stamps Scholarship | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Stamps Scholarship The Stamps Scholarship—the University of Oregon’s most prestigious and generous undergraduate scholarship—is awarded to exceptional incoming domestic first-year students in partnership with the Stamps Scholars Program . Selection to receive the UO Stamps Scholarship is merit-based and highly competitive. Approximately 20 students, ten Oregon residents and ten out-of-state students, will be awarded this merit-based scholarship annually. Award Information Oregon resident Stamps Scholars receive UO resident tuition, fees, room, and board for four years of undergraduate study. Out-of-state recipients receive nonresident tuition and fees. All recipients benefit from up to $12,000 in enrichment funds to be used over four years to help pursue study abroad, unpaid internships, or other experiences. The total award provides approximately $125,000 over four years for Oregon residents and $175,000 over four years for nonresidents. In addition to unprecedented levels of financial support, Stamps Scholars are guaranteed admission to the University of Oregon's Robert D. Clark Honors College . Eligibility Requirements Incoming domestic first-year student A minimum 3.85 cumulative high school grade point average on a 4.00 scale Demonstrated leadership, perseverance, scholarship, service, and innovation How to Apply The Stamps Scholarship application is a separate application from the admissions application to the University of Oregon. To be considered for this 2025-2026 scholarship you must: Apply for admission to the University of Oregon by November 1, as an early action applicant. Within days of apply for admission, you can find your UO student ID number in your Status Profile. You'll need this number to create an account to apply for UO scholarships. Complete the online Stamps Scholarship Application within the UO Scholarship Dashboard by November 12 . Submit all required admission application materials to the Office of Admissions by November 12 . Selection Criteria Academic preparation Activities and talents Demonstrated leadership, innovation, and perseverance Volunteer service Work experience Four short-answer essay questions Selection to receive the Stamps Scholarship is highly competitive. The University of Oregon will interview semifinalists in January 2025. Finalists are then interviewed by the Stamps Scholars Program before final selections are made. Scholarship Renewal Stamps Scholarships are renewed annually for up to 12 terms of undergraduate study over five years (excluding summer terms). For renewal, recipients must: Be enrolled in and complete a minimum of 12 UO credits per term. Maintain a 3.25 UO grade point average. Award Notification Recipients of Stamps Scholarships will be notified by March 15. In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.