General University Scholarship Program | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home General University Scholarship Program General University Scholarships are awarded on the basis of scholastic achievement, and selection is highly competitive. They are made possible by the generous contributions of many individuals to the University of Oregon. Award Information Awards vary between $1,000 - $3,600. This scholarship is awarded for one year at a time only. Eligibility Requirements Academic merit criteria varies and will be determined on a case by case basis. How to Apply Deadlines and processes differ by student status and grade level. Follow proper steps outlined below. Incoming First-Year Students Incoming first-year students are automatically considered for the General University Scholarships by completing the undergraduate admission application by January 15 . No separate General University Scholarship application is required for incoming first-year students. Current UO Students (undergraduate, graduate, or law students already attending the University of Oregon) must complete the following to receive full review: Submit the online General University Scholarship application via the UO Scholarship Dashboard by February 28 . Have an instructor or professor submit your online letter of reference via the Scholarship Dashboard by February 28 . New Graduate Applicants and New Law Applicants must complete the following to receive full review: Apply for admission to the University of Oregon by February 15 . Within days of applying for admission, you can find your UO Student ID number in your Status Portal. You'll need this number to create an account to apply for UO Scholarships. Submit the online General University Scholarship application via the Scholarship Dashboard by February 28 . Have an instructor or professor submit your online letter of reference via the Scholarship Dashboard by February 28 . Submit your official transcripts by February 28 . Incoming Law applicants will submit their transcripts when applying for admission via the Law School Admission Council. Incoming Graduate applicants will submit their transcripts to the Office of the Registrar. New Undergraduate Transfer Students (transferring to UO in Spring, Summer or Fall 2025) and New Post-Baccalaureate Applicants must complete the following to receive full review: Apply for admission to the University of Oregon by March 15 . Within days of applying for admission, you can find your UO Student ID number in your Status Portal. You'll need this number to create an account to apply for UO Scholarships. Submit the online General University Scholarship application via the Scholarship Dashboard by April 1. Have an instructor or professor submit your online letter of reference via the Scholarship Dashboard by April 1 . Submit your official transcripts to the Office of Admissions by April 1 . Selection Criteria Academic performance based on review of transcripts from all past institutions and UO academic records (if applicable) Extracurricular involvement Faculty reference (for continuing, transfer, graduate, and law students) Writing ability Creativity as demonstrated in responses to short-answer essay questions Late or incomplete applications will not be considered. Scholarship Renewal General University Scholarships are awarded for one year only. Students are encouraged to reapply each year. Award Notification First-year student recipients will be notified by April 1. Incoming graduate and law recipients, continuing undergraduates, and continuing graduate and law recipients will be notified by June 1. Transfer recipients will be notified by June 15. Complete terms and conditions can be found here . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.