Grants | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Grants Grants—unlike loans—provide funding that you don’t have to pay back. Grants are typically awarded to students who have the highest level of need according to the FAFSA . Federal Grant Programs Federal Pell Grant Based on financial need. Awarded to eligible undergraduate students. Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant Based on financial need. Awarded to eligible students who complete the FAFSA by March 1 . Funding is limited and availability may change each year. Eligible students typically receive no more than $1,050 per academic year. Teacher Education Assistance for College and Highter Education (TEACH) Grant Not based on need. This grant provides up to $4,000 per year to students who agree to teach for four years in certain fields at a low-income school. Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant Awarded to eligible undergraduate students whose parent or guardian was a member of the U.S. armed forces and died as a result of military service performed in Iraq or Afghanistan after the events of 9/11. Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Awarded to eligible undergraduate students whose parent or guardian died in the line of duty while serving as a public safety officer. State and UO Grant Programs Oregon Opportunity Grant Based on financial need. Awarded to eligible Oregon residents. University of Oregon Tuition Grant Based on financial need. Awarded to eligible full-time Oregon residents who complete the FAFSA by March 1 . PathwayOregon Grant Based on financial need and academic achievement. Awarded to eligible Oregon residents selected for the PathwayOregon program. In This Section Grants Federal Emergency CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants (HEERF) Higher Education Relief Funds (HEERF) TEACH Grant Work-Study Loans Direct Loan Subsidized Direct Loan Unsubsidized Graduate PLUS Loan Parent PLUS Loan Loan Repayment Alternative Student Loans Summer Aid Study Abroad RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.