Oregon Guarantee | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Oregon Guarantee Oregon Guarantee The Oregon Guarantee provides each UO student a fixed tuition rate for up to five years. A college education is a big investment in your future. We want all University of Oregon students to be able to plan financially for that investment. That’s why we’re providing the Oregon Guarantee. So, this is our pledge to you: when you choose the UO, the tuition rate you pay will stay the same for up to five years — no increases, no surprises. How It Works The Oregon Guarantee is mandatory and applies to all new students — freshmen and transfers — who first enroll on or after summer term 2020. The five-year guarantee covers many of the costs of attendance at the UO, but not all: What is covered Tuition (resident or nonresident) Most mandatory fees , like building and technology fees Honors college differential tuition College of Business undergraduate differential tuition International fee For all of these costs, the amount you pay when you first enroll will remain the same for five years. What is not covered Incidental fee (which funds the student government) Lab fees or other fees charged by an individual course Health insurance Room and board Remember, these costs aren’t covered by the guarantee, but they’re still covered by financial aid and scholarships. A Five-Year Guarantee The Oregon Guarantee lasts for five cohort years. But what's a cohort? A cohort is a group of students who first enroll at the UO during the same academic year. Find the term you're enrolling in to determine when the guarantee ends. 2022 Cohort Starting Terms Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 For these starting terms, the guarantee will last until the end of spring 2027 . 2023 Cohort Starting Terms Summer 2023 Fall 2023 Winter 2024 Spring 2024 For these starting terms, the guarantee will last until the end of spring 2028 . 2024 Cohort Starting Terms Summer 2024 Fall 2024 Winter 2025 Spring 2025 For these starting terms, the guarantee will last until the end of spring 2029 . Frequently Asked Questions How does the guarantee affect my residency? The UO will continue to set different rates for residents and nonresidents. Visit the cost of attendance page to determine these rates. What if I defer my enrollment after I've been admitted? Students will be placed in a cohort based on the first term they enroll and matriculate, regardless of their deferral status. For example, if you were admitted for fall 2020, but you defer to fall 2021, you will be placed in the 2021 cohort. (Use the boxes in the previous section to determine which term corresponds to which cohort.) What happens if I take longer than five years to graduate? For each additional year beyond five years, all of the covered costs will move to the levels of the next tuition cohort. For example, if a student in the 2020 cohort continues as an undergraduate in fall 2025, they will be assessed the tuition and fees for the 2021 cohort. If they remain enrolled in fall 2026 they will be assessed the same tuition and fees as the 2022 tuition cohort, and so on. What if I leave UO during the guarantee period and return later? Students who withdraw for any reason (other than for US military service) and re-enroll will remain in the same cohort—however, their guarantee expiration date will not be extended. Does the guarantee apply to transfer students? Yes. Transfer students are placed in the same cohort as first-year students, based on the first term they enroll, and will be charged the same tuition rate for five years. Does the guarantee apply to non-degree seeking students? No. Non-degree students are always charged tuition and administrative mandatory fees at the most recent tuition cohort rate. What about study abroad? There are three types of study abroad programs at the UO, and the guarantee applies to each of them differently. However, in all cases, the guarantee period is not put on hold and the time in these programs count toward the five-year cohort period. UO student exchange programs: Students pay tuition to the UO at the Oregon Guarantee rate. UO study abroad programs: Students pay UO’s Study Abroad tuition per credit hour rate. Non-UO study abroad programs: Students pay tuition directly to the program administrator (not to the UO) and will be charged accordingly. What about undergraduate students who started before guaranteed tuition? All undergraduate students who began prior to March 2020 had their tuition increases locked to 3 percent per year for up to four years. These increases were much lower than previous annual increases over the last decade. The ten-year average annual tuition increase had been 5.4 percent for resident students and 4.3 percent for nonresident students. If those students took longer than an additional four years to graduate, for 2024–25 they will pay the tuition rate of the 2020–21 guaranteed tuition cohort. How does my GI Bill affect the Oregon Guarantee? The GI Bill can work differently for each student. To understand how it affects you, please contact the UO Veterans Affairs Office in the Office of the Registrar at 541-346-3119 or veterans@uoregon.edu . Additional Resources Cost of Attendance Find Scholarships Guarantee Announcement RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.