Accept Work-Study and Loans | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Accept Work-Study and Loans We assume you want to accept all grants and scholarships so they are "accepted" by default. Work-study and loans are offered as "pending" and require you to accept them. To accept work-study and loans on DuckWeb . Click on Student Menu Financial Aid Information Menu Financial Aid Offer Select Aid Year Accept Aid Offer The PLUS application for either the Federal Direct Parent PLUS loan or the Graduate PLUS loan is found at StudentAid.gov . If you have questions or concerns, please contact us before accepting any financial aid. Eligibility As a recipient of financial aid you must meet and maintain the eligibility requirements. Options for Accepting Your Aid Accept the entire student loan as you see it by clicking on "Accept Full Amount All Awards." Accept part of a student loan by typing the revised amount in "Accept Partial Amount." To make corrections to your financial aid after you have accepted it online, contact us through e-mail or regular mail. Outstanding Requirements If you have outstanding requirements, you will be taken to the eligibility and requirements page on DuckWeb. If you have notes regarding a particular requirement, you will see an asterisk next to the name of the requirement. Click on "Detailed Requirement Notes" to review. Most outstanding requirements must be completed prior to the disbursement of financial aid. In This Section Financial Aid Offer Accept Work-Study and Loans Create a Budget Revising Your Financial Aid Revised Offer Report Additional Resources Receipt of Financial Aid Eligibility Federal Eligibility Enrollment Satisfactory Academic Progress Student Financial Aid Appeal Procedures Participation Requirements Return of Financial Aid Rights and Responsibilities RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.