Receipt of Financial Aid and Scholarships | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Receipt of Financial Aid and Scholarships Once you have completed the financial aid checklist , you should be eligible to receive your financial aid. Disbursement (payment) of aid begins each term a few days prior to the start of classes. Disbursement of Financial Aid, Scholarships, and Work Programs All federal financial aid, most scholarships awarded through the UO, and all fee waivers awarded by university departments are applied directly to your student billing account at the beginning of each term or once you have fulfilled the requirements to receive the funds. Financial aid and scholarships are disbursed in three equal installments during the academic year. After current charges on your billing account have been paid, any excess financial aid is disbursed through direct deposit to your private bank account (sign up for direct deposit on DuckWeb). Work-study programs disburse funds as wages for hours worked during the pay period. Paychecks come from the Payroll Department and are generally available the last working day of the month. If you have questions about your bill or direct deposit, please contact Business Affairs . In This Section Financial Aid Offer Accept Work-Study and Loans Create a Budget Revising Your Financial Aid Revised Offer Report Additional Resources Receipt of Financial Aid Eligibility Federal Eligibility Enrollment Satisfactory Academic Progress Student Financial Aid Appeal Procedures Participation Requirements Return of Financial Aid Rights and Responsibilities RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.