Electronic Resource Aid Requisition (eRAR) | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Scholarships Electronic Resource Aid Requisition (eRAR) (For Department use only) Welcome to the eRAR landing page. Please use this online process for requesting payment to students from scholarship funds held by the University of Oregon Foundation. Log-in to submit an eRAR here . Instructions & FAQ Important Dates: May 13, 2024: Deadline to submit Summer 2024 eRARs and have them listed on continuing students' initial summer financial aid offers. June 21, 2024: Deadline to submit Fall 2024 eRARs and have them listed on continuing students' initial financial aid offers. August 1, 2024: Deadline to submit Fall 2024 eRARs for law students and have them pay out on the first day of Financial Aid disbursement (approx 1 week before Fall semester begins). September 3, 2024: Deadline to submit Fall 2024 eRARs and have them pay out on the first day of Financial Aid disbursement (approx 1 week before Fall term begins). Requesting Financial Need Levels If you would like to consider your applicants' financial need level when determining scholarship awards, please email a list of UOIDs and names to Tina Phifer. Please allow a 2 week turn-around to process this request. You should also encourage all of your applicants to submit their financial need to UO by the scholarship deadline. Consider using the following wording on your scholarship application, website and emails to students: Your Financial Need Level will be considered when we make scholarship selections. Please submit your FAFSA, ORSAA or Statement of Financial Need by the scholarship deadline. The FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid) is an online application for students who are US citizens, Legal Permanent Residents (LPRs) or other eligible non-citizens. The ORSAA (Oregon Student Aid Application) is an alternative to the FAFSA for Dreamer students including students who have Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status or Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as well as other undocumented students. The Statement of Financial Need is a form for international students with a valid student visa and can be submitted directly to the UO Division of Global Engagement. Important Announcements Summer Financial Aid and scholarships will disburse to students' billing accounts around the day of their first class of summer. Please note that this date varies for each student depending on their summer schedule. Students are welcome to contact the Office of Student Financial Aid & Scholarships to get a more exact date. Students must be enrolled in at least 1 credit during the term to receive an award. If you have a unique circumstance where a student will not be enrolled, please contact us. If you want to pay a student out of a fund that has not yet been set up in the eRAR system, please contact Tina with the fund name, department name and equity number. Please allow a 2 week turn-around to process this request. Having problems approving eRARs? Try these instructions. Questions? Contact: Leslie Robinson, Financial Aid Counselor, Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships  larobins@uoregon.edu (Looking for the paper RAR form to process scholarships from non-Foundation Funds? See Business Affairs .) RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.