Summit Scholarship | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Summit Scholarship Summit Scholarships reward scholars for reaching the peak of high school achievement. You'll scale even greater heights as you join the UO's tradition of excellence. Award Information The Summit Scholarship awards Oregon top scholars $20,000 over four years — $5,000 per year; and due to the difference in tuition, incoming fall 2025 nonresident top scholars will receive $50,000 over four years — $12,500 per year (annual award is split evenly over fall, winter, and spring terms). The Summit Scholarship can be combined with other UO scholarships, including the Presidential , Diversity Excellence , and General University Scholarships . Summit Scholarships may not be combined with the Apex Scholarship or UO Excellence Scholarship . Students enrolled in five-year degree programs will receive the Summit Scholarship for a fifth year. These degrees include BLA (landscape architecture), BIARC (interior architecture), and BARCH (architecture). You must enroll at the UO in the fall term of your first year and you must enroll in 12 University of Oregon credits each term to receive this award. Selection Criteria Summit Scholarships are awarded to incoming first-year students based on these criteria: Minimum 3.90 high school GPA on a 4.00 scale Have not attended another college after high school graduation How to Apply You will be automatically considered for the Summit Scholarship—no separate application is required. You must simply: Apply for admission by January 15 . Submit all required admission application materials to the Office of Admissions by February 15 . Scholarship Renewal Summit Scholarships are renewable for up to 12 academic terms (excluding summer) within a five-year period, or 15 academic terms within a six-year period for students seeking a BLA, BIARC, or BARCH degree. If you graduate prior to using all of the terms of the scholarship, any remaining terms not used will be forfeited. Renewal awards require a minimum 3.00 cumulative UO GPA and completion of 12 UO credits per term / 36 UO credits per year. Complete terms and conditions can be found here . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.