Diversity Excellence Scholarship | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Diversity Excellence Scholarship The Diversity Excellence Scholarship (DES) recognizes the academic achievement and potential of students who, through sharing their varied cultural perspectives, will enhance the education of all UO students and the excellence of the University. The University of Oregon offers these tuition-remission scholarships as part of our diversity mission . Award Information Annual award amounts range from $6,500-$7500 for undergraduate students (annual award is split evenly over fall, winter, and spring terms). The scholarship is renewable with the length of eligibility based on the recipient's grade level at the time of awarding. The DES is a tuition remission scholarship. It cannot be combined with some tuition-remission programs such as the Presidential Scholarship and may be reduced if used with UO staff/staff family rates or other tuition remission scholarships. Eligibility Requirements You must apply for admission to the University of Oregon OR be a currently enrolled University of Oregon student in good standing. Establish financial need as defined by federal and state guidelines. Meet the DES minimum GPA requirements. All applicants must have a cumulative GPA of 3.00 or greater to be considered. Meet the DES application deadlines. Only domestic students are eligible to receive the Diversity Excellence Scholarship. How to Apply Deadlines and processes differ by student status and grade level. Follow proper steps outlined below. Incoming students (students not currently attending the UO) First-year student applicants: Apply for admission to the University of Oregon by January 15 . Within days of applying for admission, you can find your UO Student ID number in your Status Portal. You'll need this number to create an account to apply for UO Scholarships. Complete the online Diversity Excellence Scholarship application within the UO Scholarship Dashboard by January 31 . Have a school official, teacher, member of a community organization, or employer submit your online letter of reference via the Scholarship Dashboard by January 31 . Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the federal processor no later than January 31 . List the UO as one of your choices. The UO school code is 003223. Note: Dreamer students including students who have Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status or Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as well as other undocumented students who are ineligible to submit a FAFSA may submit an Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA), which is an alternative to the FAFSA. File the ORSAA by January 31 to meet the scholarship application deadline. Submit all required admission application materials to the Office of Admissions by February 15 . Transfer student applicants: Apply for admission to the University of Oregon by March 15 . Within days of applying for admission, you can find your UO Student ID number in your Status Portal. You'll need this number to create an account to apply for UO Scholarships. Complete the online Diversity Excellence Scholarship application within the UO Scholarship Dashboard by April 1 . Have an instructor or professor, member of a community organization, or employer submit your online letter of reference via the Scholarship Dashboard by April 1 . Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the federal processor no later than March 1 . List the UO as one of your choices. The UO school code is 003223. Note: Dreamer students including students who have Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status or Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as well as other undocumented students who are ineligible to submit a FAFSA may submit an Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA), which is an alternative to the FAFSA. File the ORSAA by March 1 to meet the scholarship application deadline. Submit all academic transcripts to the Office of Admissions by April 1 . Continuing UO students Undergraduate students already attending the University of Oregon: Complete the online Diversity Excellence Scholarship application within the UO Scholarship Dashboard by February 28 . Have an instructor or professor, member of a community organization, or employer submit your online letter of reference via the Scholarship Dashboard by February 28 . Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the federal processor no later than March 1 . List the UO as one of your choices. The UO school code is 003223. Note: Dreamer students including students who have Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status or Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as well as other undocumented students who are ineligible to submit a FAFSA may submit an Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA), which is an alternative to the FAFSA. File the ORSAA by March 1 to meet the scholarship application deadline. Selection Criteria Scholarship recipients are selected by the Diversity Excellence Scholarship selection committee based on the following: Past academic performance Participation in campus or community activities Individual's ability to contribute to diversity Preference given to students with financial need as defined by federal and state guidelines Preference given to first generation of the family to attend college Preference given to Oregon residents Scholarship Renewal To maintain scholarship eligibility, you must: Be enrolled in and complete a minimum of 12 UO credits per term. Maintain a minimum 3.00 UO GPA. Make satisfactory progress toward completion of a degree. Meet regularly with a scholarship advisor in the Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence (CMAE) . Award Notification First-year student recipients will be notified by April 1. Continuing undergraduate recipients will be notified by June 1. Transfer recipients will be notified by June 15. Note: This award cannot be combined with some tuition-remission programs such as University of Oregon staff tuition rates. Complete terms and conditions can be found here . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.