Consumer Information | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Consumer Information The University of Oregon is required by the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, to disclose certain information to enrolled students, prospective students, parents, employees, and others. This information may also be disclosed in other ways by the University (email, mailings, publications, websites, etc.), but is also provided here for convenience. Information for the University of Oregon is provided below, including a listing of the disclosure, a brief description, applicable website addresses, and contact information for the university official (or department) who can respond to questions or information requests in their specific areas. Employees of the University are available with reasonable notice to assist enrolled and prospective students in obtaining consumer information on a full-time basis throughout normal working hours. The University can provide a paper copy of any of the information on the listed websites upon request. General Institutional Information Privacy of Student Records - Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Facilities and Services for Students with Disabilities Student Body Diversity Cost of Attendance Net Price Calculator Refund Policy Requirements for Withdrawal Return of Federal Financial Aid Textbook Information Academic Programs (Educational Program, Instructional Facilities, and Faculty) Transfer of Credit Policies and Articulation Agreements Accreditation of Institution Copyright Infringement - Policies and Sanctions (Including Computer Use and File Sharing) Complaints Prohibited Discrimination and Harassment Public Service Loan Forgiveness Gainful Employment Constitution Day Teacher Preparation Program Report Student Financial Assistance Student Financial Aid Information Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations Disbursement for Books and Supplies Credits Earned Through Study Abroad Code of Conduct College Financing Plan (Shopping Sheet) Student Loan Information (published by U.S. Department of Education) State Grant Assistance National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) Student Loan Default Rates Initial/Entrance Loan Counseling for Student Borrowers Exit Counseling for Student Borrowers Private Education Loan Disclosures (Including Self-Certification Form) Disputing a Federal Student Loan/Contacting the FSA Ombudsman Health and Safety Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention Program Vaccination Policies Campus Security Policies, Crime Statistics, and Crime Log Fire Safety Policies, Fire Statistics and Fire Log (On-Campus Housing Facilities) Privacy of Health Records Student Outcomes Retention Rate Graduation Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Graduation Rates for Students Receiving Athletically Related Student Aid (Student Right-to-Know Act) Types of Graduate and Professional Education Programs in which Graduates of UO Four-Year Degree Programs Enroll Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data (Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act) Voter Registration The U.S. Department of Education also discloses a number of consumer information related items about the University of Oregon on the College Navigator website . General Institutional Information Privacy of Student Records - Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) The Family Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) afford eligible students certain rights with respect to their educational records. Each year, the University of Oregon provides a notice to all enrolled student about: the right to review their educational records, to request amendment of records, to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information, and to file complaints with the U.S. Department of Education; procedures for reviewing educational records and requesting amendment of records; and information about UO policy regarding disclosures to school officials with a legitimate educational interest in the educational records. More information about these rights is available on the website of the Office of the Registrar . The full text of the University of Oregon's Student's Record Policy is available on the University Policy Library website. For further question please contact the Office of the Registrar at 541-346-2935 or registrar@uoregon.edu. Facilities and Services for Students with Disabilities The Accessible Education Center (AEC) facilitates and supports access and inclusion for students with disabilities. They offer a range of academic accommodations, including exam adjustments, sign language interpretation, classroom relocation, and adaptive technology services. Students can also get help with academic planning, problem solving, time management, and organizational strategies. In addition to working individually with students, the AEC offers several educational and support groups that may be valuable to students especially as they are transitioning to the university. For information about facilities and services available to students with disabilities please contact the AEC at 541-346-1155 or uoaec@uoregon.edu . Student Body Diversity Information about student body diversity, including the percentage of enrolled, full-time students in the following categories: male; female; Federal Pell Grant recipients; and self-identified members of a major racial or ethnic group is available by visiting the Office of Institutional Research website . For further question please contact the Office of Institutional Research at contactir@uoregon.edu. Cost of Attendance The cost of attendance reflects the amount of money a typical student is projected to need for school-related expenses during the academic year based on residency, housing arrangements, and degree program. The Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships publishes estimated costs of: tuition and fees, housing and food, books, course materials, supplies, and equipment, transportation, and miscellaneous personal expenses. Actual expenses can vary depending on a number of factors, including but not limited to: number of credits being taken, degree program, housing arrangements, residency, and lifestyle choices. We may also be able to include other costs such as: childcare, purchasing a computer, sole occupancy for undergraduates, study abroad expenses, disability related expenses, the cost of obtaining a license, certification, or first professional credential if required to enter your profession, and more. For actual tuition and fee charges please visit the UO Tuition website . If you have further questions concerning cost of attendance please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Net Price Calculator Net Price is the amount that a student pays to attend an institution in a single academic year AFTER subtracting scholarships and grants the student receives. A Net Price Calculator is available on our website and it allows prospective students to enter information about themselves to find out what students like them paid to attend the institution, after taking grants and scholarships into account. Net price results from the calculator are estimates and are not final or binding and may change. Please note a student must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to be eligible for federal student aid funds. For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Refund Policy Refunds are based on assessed tuition and class fees, and calculated from the date you officially drop a class or reduce credits, not the date of your last class attendance. Your registration will not be cancelled for nonpayment of tuition. You must either pay your tuition and fees or notify the University if you do not intend to complete the term. More information about the University's refund policy, including the refund schedule, can be found on this website . For further questions please contact the Office of the Registrar at 541-346-2935 or registrar@uoregon.edu. Requirements for Withdrawal Students wishing to drop all of their classes from the University should initiate the request through the "Complete Withdrawal" link in the DuckWeb registration menu . For questions about the process please contact the Office of Academic Advising at 541-346-3211. Note: this may have an impact on your financial aid (see next bullet point). Return of Federal Financial Aid If you withdraw from the University and have received financial aid, funds may need to be returned to the appropriate financial aid programs , possibly creating a bill on your University student billing account. Financial aid is "earned" for each day that a student participates in class. You may be expected to repay the "unearned" portion of your financial aid if you withdraw from school or receive non-passing grades in your classes. Since non-passing grades do not confirm participation, students who receive non-passing grades must prove participation; most commonly a written statement from a faculty member detailing participation or a printout from Canvas showing grades earned in the course. More information about Return of Federal Financial Aid can be found on this website . For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Textbook Information Students can find various information concerning required textbooks including retail price and ISBN for their courses on the website of the Duck Store . For further assistance please contact the Duck Store at 541-255-0795. Academic Programs (Educational Program, Instructional Facilities, and Faculty) Information related to current degree programs and other educational and training programs can be found on this website or by contacting the University of Oregon at 541-346-1000. Information related to research being conducted at the University can be found on this website or by contacting the University of Oregon at 541-346-1000. Information related to facilities in regards to academic programs can be found on this website or by contacting Campus Operations at 541-346-2319 or workcontrolcenter@uoregon.edu . Information related to faculty and other instructional personnel can be found on this website or by contacting the Office of the Provost at 541-346-3081 or OtP@uoregon.edu . Information related to academic planning and improvement can be found on this website or by contacting the Office of the Provost at 541-346-3081 or OtP@uoregon.edu . Transfer of Credit Policies and Articulation Agreements The determination of the transferability of courses occurs within the Division of Student Services and Enrollment Management. This articulation is completed by the Office of the Registrar, whose staff determines appropriate levels and equivalencies for courses from fully-accredited post-secondary institutions. For some institutions, a full articulation agreement exists; i.e., a comprehensive collection of an entire course catalog is articulated, and equivalencies can be viewed on the Registrar’s Transfer Credit Equivalencies website. The University of Oregon encourages all applicants to submit their transfer work on official transcripts as early as possible so that course transferability may be determined. For both domestic and international institutions, course transfer will be determined upon receipt of an official transcript for a student who has submitted an application for admission. University of Oregon participates in a dual enrollment program in which students can take courses at two schools at once. A list of articulation agreements may be found on this website . For more information please contact the Office of Admissions at 541-346-3201 or admissions@uoregon.edu or for transfer credit equivalencies please contact the Office of the Registrar at 541-346-2935 or registrar@uoregon.edu. Accreditation of Institution The University of Oregon is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU). Accreditation of an institution of higher education by the NWCCU indicates that it meets or exceeds criteria for the assessment of institutional quality evaluated through a peer review process. An accredited college or university is one which has available the necessary resources to achieve its stated purposes through appropriate educational programs, is substantially doing so, and gives reasonable evidence that it will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. Institutional integrity is also addressed through accreditation. For obtaining or reviewing documents describing institutional accreditation of the University of Oregon please visit this website , by calling 541-346-3081 or emailing OtP@uoregon.edu . Copyright Infringement - Policies and Sanctions (Including Computer Use and File Sharing) Sharing files without the permission of the copyright owner puts you at risk of a criminal and/or civil lawsuit. If you are found to have violated Federal copyright law, you may be liable for damages up to $30,000 for each work infringed and, if willful infringement can be proven, then damages can go as high as $150,000 for each work infringed. For more information see the "Copyright Infringement and Remedies" documents maintained by the U.S. Copyright Office . Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material also violates the university's Acceptable Use of Computer Resources Policy . Those who violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action by Student Judicial Affairs. Sanctions can include loss of network access privileges and disciplinary probation. Questions regarding unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material, including unauthorized peer-to-peer file sharing, may be answered by UO Information Services at 541-346-4357 or helpdesk@uoregon.edu . Complaints The University of Oregon is committed to addressing student complaints timely and effectively, in accordance with applicable University grievance procedures, as outlined in University Policy 571-003-0100 . While the University encourages students to work through internal university processes for resolution of their concerns, students may also file external complaints with certain agencies. For more detailed information on filing an external complaint against the University of Oregon please visit this website . Questions about this policy can be addressed by the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Prohibited Discrimination and Harassment The University of Oregon affirms and actively promotes the right of all individuals to equal opportunity in education and employment at this institution without regard to race, color, sex, national origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or any other extraneous consideration not directly and substantively related to effective performance. As a federal contractor, the University of Oregon is committed to affirmative action in employment as a means of ensuring equality of opportunity. Students and employees who feel they have encountered any form of discrimination or harassment may inquire at the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance at 541-346-3123 for information on their rights, options, and resources. Public Service Loan Forgiveness The Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Program forgives the remaining balance on your Direct Loans after you have made 120 qualifying payments under a qualifying repayment plan while working full-time for a qualifying employer. This program is administered by Federal Student Aid and additional information can be found on this website . The University of Oregon is a qualifying employer for the program. For more information call Federal Student Aid at 800-433-3243 or your federal loan servicer. Gainful Employment In order for a non-degree (i.e. certificate), stand-alone program to be eligible for federal financial aid, among other things, the non-degree program must prepare students in that program for gainful employment in a specific recognized occupation. The University of Oregon only has one non-degree stand-alone program currently eligible for federal financial aid and accepting new students. A Graduate Certificate in Non-Profit Management (NPM) . For further information about this program please contact the Department of Planning, Public Policy and Management (PPPM) at 541-346-3635 or pppm@uoregon.edu . Constitution Day Each educational institution that receives Federal funds for a fiscal year shall hold an educational program on the United States Constitution on September 17 of such year for the students served by the educational institution, commemorating the September 17, 1787 signing of the Constitution. If September 17 falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, Constitution Day shall be held during the preceding or following week. UO fulfills this requirement annually through an educational program held by the UO Law School . Additionally, the Office of Student Financial Aid & Scholarships publishes information about the program and Constitution Day on our website . *Note: The UO does not place students or guarantee job placement upon program completion or graduation; and the UO does not publish placement rates as a means of recruiting students. Visit the Career Center website for more information about their services. The Career Center can also be contacted at 541-346-3235 or career@uoregon.edu . Teacher Preparation Program Report Each year the College of Education provides a report to the state of Oregon and the U.S. Department of Education in relation to preparing teachers for initial state certification or licensure. The report includes: goals, assurances, pass rates and scaled scores, program information, among other information. The Title II Oregon report is available on this website . For further information or to request a copy of the college's report please contact the College of Education . Student Financial Assistance Student Financial Aid Information A number of disclosures are required pertaining to student financial aid information. Many of these disclosures are available on the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships website and through the UO Catalog . These include: information about the need-based and non-need-based federal, state, local, private, and institutional student financial assistance programs ; criteria for awarding aid ; eligibility requirements ; method and frequency of disbursements ; rights and responsibilities of students receiving federal aid including continued student eligibility and standards of Satisfactory Academic Progress ; procedures for applying ; general conditions and terms for federal work-study ; and exit counseling information. Additionally, certain disclosures for loans are made when a student completes their Master Promissory Note for Direct Loans. Sample Master Promissory Note is available to review on the FSA website without having to create an account first. These loan disclosures include, among other things: terms and conditions of the loans; sample repayment schedule; and the necessity for repaying the loans. Additional information regarding loans will be disclosed during Entrance and Exit Counseling as well. Information such as anticipated loan amount and disbursement date will be provided to students as part of a disclosure statement. For additional information about these disclosures please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Federal Student Financial Aid Penalties for Drug Law Violations *Note: Beginning June 17, 2021, this is no longer a student eligibility requirement for federal financial aid for the 2021-2022 school year and beyond. A federal or state drug conviction (but not a local or municipal conviction) can disqualify a student for FSA funds. Convictions only count against a student for aid eligibility purposes (FAFSA question 23c) if they were for an offense that occurred during a period of enrollment for which the student was receiving federal student aid—they do not count if the offense was not during such a period, unless the student was denied federal benefits for drug trafficking by a federal or state judge. Also, a conviction that was reversed, set aside, or removed from the student’s record does not count, nor does one received when she was a juvenile, unless she was tried as an adult. The University will notify each student who becomes ineligible for federal aid due to a drug conviction. Enrolled students are notified annually by the Office of the Dean of Students that they may lose financial aid as a consequence of drug conviction. For more information please visit the Federal Student Aid website . Additional questions can be answered by the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Disbursement for Books and Supplies The university must provide a way for a student who is eligible for federal aid to obtain or purchase, by the 7th day of the term, the books and supplies applicable to the term, if 10 days before the beginning of the term the institution could disburse funds the student is eligible for and assuming the funds were disbursed, the student would have a credit balance (i.e. refund). The UO meets this requirement as we disburse (pay) funds up to 10 days before the beginning of the term and refunds would be available to students around the beginning of each term (and certainly before the 7th day of the term), if conditions above are met. For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Credits Earned Through Study Abroad Study Abroad approved for credit may be considered enrollment at the University of Oregon for the purposes of financial aid. Additional information can be provided by the Study Abroad Program - Global Education Oregon (GEO) at 541-346-3207 or geoinfo@uoregon.edu . Financial aid questions surrounding study abroad can be answered by contacting the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Code of Conduct The Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships adheres to the following code of conduct and outline our statement of ethical principles . For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . College Financing Plan (Shopping Sheet) In carrying out the Principles of Excellence for Educational Institutions Serving Service Members, Veterans, Spouses, and Other Family Members set forth Executive Order 13607, the University has implemented a personalized and standardized cost form in the “College Financing Plan (formerly known as the Shopping Sheet)” format developed by the Department of Education. This College Financing Plan provides personalized award information to all admitted students, including service members, veterans, spouses, and other family members. It is provided electronically via a link on the student’s DuckWeb account under Financial Aid and is aid year specific. Since the College Financing Plan is accessible to students on their DuckWeb account, we will not be mailing the form directly to students. Additional information that fulfills the notification requirements in E.O. 13067 can be found on the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships website , the UO Veterans Affairs Office website , as well as Veteran Services at the UO website . Applicable contact information is available by visiting those websites. Student Loan Information (published by U.S. Department of Education) State Grant Assistance The state of Oregon offers grant assistance to students of Oregon. For more information about availability of and eligibility for grant assistance please visit the website of the Office of Student Access and Completion or by contacting the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . For students from states other than Oregon, please contact your home state's appropriate office to determine if they award state grants for students attending college outside of their home state. National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) The University will submit student and parent federal loan information to the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS) . This information will be accessible by guaranty agencies, lenders, and schools determined to be authorized users of the data system. You can find a detailed history of your federal loans on studentaid.gov . For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Student Loan Default Rates A cohort default rate (CDR) is the percentage of a school's borrowers who enter repayment on certain Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program or William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (Direct Loan) Program loans during a particular federal fiscal year (FY), October 1 to September 30, and default or meet other specified conditions prior to the end of the second following fiscal year. UO's most recent official CDRs FY 2020: 0.0% FY 2019: 1.0% FY 2018: 3.1% Additional information about cohort default rates is available from the U.S. Department of Education . Initial/Entrance Loan Counseling for Student Borrowers Direct Loan Entrance Counseling is completed online at StudentAid.gov . While these must be completed prior to UO disbursing applicable loan funds to a first-time borrower, we have included a link to a guide about Direct Loan entrance counseling which includes comprehensive information on the terms and conditions of the loan and the borrower's responsibilities. For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Exit Counseling for Student Borrowers Direct Loan Exit Counseling is completed online at StudentAid.gov . Loan borrowers will be notified to complete exit counseling when a student nears graduation or if they drop below half-time enrollment. We have included a link to a guide about Direct Loan exit counseling which includes comprehensive information required to be disclosed through exit counseling. For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . Private Education Loan Disclosures (Including Self-Certification Form) Information concerning Private Education Loans (i.e. Alternative Loans) and the process for applying for one may be found on our website. Please keep in mind the terms and conditions of federal loans may be more favorable than the provisions of the private education loans and our office would recommend considering utilizing full federal loan eligibility prior to considering the use of a private education loan to finance their education. Self-Certification forms for private education loans can be found on this website . For questions please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at 541-346-3221 or financialaid@uoregon.edu . *Note: The UO does not participate in a Preferred Lender Arrangement. Disputing a Federal Student Loan/Contacting the FSA Ombudsman The Ombudsman’s office is a resource for borrowers to use when other approaches to resolving student loan problems have failed. Borrowers should first attempt to resolve complaints by contacting the school, company, agency, or office directly involved. If the borrower has made a reasonable effort to resolve the problem through normal processes and has not been successful, he or she should contact the FSA Ombudsman. U.S. Department of Education FSA Ombudsman Group P.O. Box 1854 Monticello, KY 42633 Phone toll-free: 1-877-557-2575 Fax: 606-396-4821 https://studentaid.gov/feedback-ombudsman/disputes/prepare *Note: The UO does not participate in a Preferred Lender Arrangement. Health and Safety Drug and Alcohol Abuse Prevention Program Each year the University of Oregon distributes in writing to each student and each employee information related to our drug and alcohol abuse prevention program. Such information includes: standards of conduct; legal sanctions under state, local, and federal law; health risks; available counseling, treatment, rehabilitation, or re-entry programs; and a statement that the school will impose sanctions for violation of standards of conduct and a description of sanctions. A biennial review of the program is also conducted. For additional information related to disclosures sent to students please contact the Office of the Dean of Students at 541-346-3216. For additional information related to disclosures sent to employees please contact Human Resources at 541-346-3159 or hrinfo@uoregon.edu . Vaccination Policies The University of Oregon requires all incoming students to have up-to-date immunizations and a tuberculosis screening, or complete a waiver. Certain vaccinations may be required prior to beginning enrollment, while for others, a student will not be able to register for the following term if they fail to satisfy the necessary requirements. For further information please contact the University Health Services at 541-346-2770. Campus Security Policies, Crime Statistics, and Crime Log By October 1 each year the university distributes a notice of the security report to all current students and employees. The university also notifies prospective students and employees about the report's availability. The report includes a number of items, including but not limited to: crime statistics; policies for reporting criminal actions or other emergencies; policies concerning security of and access to campus facilities; enforcement authority and jurisdiction; programs designed to prevent crimes; information concerning registered sex offenders; policies concerning possession, use, or sale of alcohol beverages and illegal drugs along with enforcement of laws; among numerous other items. Some of the additional information includes: timely warnings and emergency notifications; a crime log (which is open for public inspection); emergency response and evacuation procedures; missing person notification policy; programs to prevent dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking; institutional disciplinary action in cases of alleged dating violence, domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking; and information for crime victims about disciplinary proceedings. A copy of the report is available on the UO Clery Act's website . For further questions concerning the report please contact UOPD at 541-346-0670. Fire Safety Policies, Fire Statistics and Fire Log (On-Campus Housing Facilities) The Fire Safety Report is combined with the annual security report (and distributed at the same time - see above) and includes fire statistics as well as information about the fires for the three most recent calendar years for each on-campus student housing facility. Also included are numerous policies and procedures concerning fire safety as well as information about the University's fire log (which is open for public inspection). A copy of the report is available on the UO Clery Act's website . For further questions concerning the report please contact UOPD at 541-346-0670. Privacy of Health Records Your confidentiality is a priority at the University Health Services (UHS). UHS is committed to upholding all legal and professional obligations to protect the confidentiality of your health records. Confidentiality is central to the effective provisions of healthcare services. A confidential medical record is established and maintained for every patient who receives care at the University Health Services. For more information contact the University Health Services at 541-346-3573 or uhcmedicalrecords@uoregon.edu . Student Outcomes Retention Rate Retention rate is the percentage of first-time, first-year undergraduate students who continue at that school the next year. For example, a student who studies full-time in the fall quarter and keeps on studying in the program in the next fall quarter is counted in this rate. The latest retention rate is published on this website. For more information please contact the Office of the Registrar at 541-346-2935 or registrar@uoregon.edu. Graduation Rates (Student Right-to-Know Act) Graduation rate is the percentage of first-time, first-year undergraduate students who complete their program within 150% of the published time for the program. For example, for a four-year degree program, entering students who complete within six years are counted as graduates. The latest graduation rates including rates disaggregated by gender, race/ethnicity, and financial aid type are published on this website. Historical graduation rates are published on this website. For more information please contact the Office of the Registrar at 541-346-2935 or registrar@uoregon.edu. The Office of Institutional Research also publishes graduation rates by ethnicity , gender , and students of color . For more information on these specific rates please contact the Office of Institutional Research at contactir@uoregon.edu . Graduation Rates for Students Receiving Athletically Related Student Aid (Student Right-to-Know Act) Each year the school publishes a report that contains the number of students, by race and gender, who attended UO in the prior year. The report also includes the number of students who attended in the prior year and who received athletically related aid, categorized by race and gender within each sport; the completion or graduation rate of certificate or degree-seeking first-time, full-time undergraduates, categorized by race and gender for the most recently completing class, as well as the same criteria but those who received athletically related student aid within each sport; among other data. For additional information please contact the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics Compliance Office at 541-346-5452. Types of Graduate and Professional Education Programs in which Graduates of UO Four-Year Degree Programs Enroll For information about the types of graduate and professional education programs in which our graduates enroll please contact the Office of Institutional Research at contactir@uoregon.edu , or contact the Office of the Registrar at 541-346-2935 or registrar@uoregon.edu. *Note: The UO does not place students or guarantee job placement upon program completion or graduation; and the UO does not publish placement rates as a means of recruiting students. Visit the Career Center website for more information about their services. The Career Center can also be contacted at 541-346-3235 or career@uoregon.edu . Additionally, the UO is not required to report a transfer-out rate to the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS); however, certain transfer-out information is published on the Student Achievement Measure (SAM) website . Transfer-out rate is the percentage of first-time, first-year undergraduate students who transfer to another college within 150% of the published time for the program. For example, a student who is in a four-year degree program is counted as a transfer if the student goes to another college within six years. Intercollegiate Athletic Program Participation Rates and Financial Support Data (Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act) The Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act (EADA) is intended to make prospective students aware of a school's commitment to providing equitable athletic opportunities for its men and women students. The UO prepares this report annually and it contains participation rates, financial support, and other information on men's and women's intercollegiate athletic programs. The Department of Intercollegiate Athletics does several reports on this data. For additional information please contact the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics Compliance Office at 541-346-5452. You can review a copy of the latest report submitted to the U.S. Department of Education's Equity in Athletics Data Analysis website or visit the Equity in Athletics Data Analysis website and search for the University of Oregon for this information. Voter Registration As part of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, Congress directed schools to make a good faith effort to distribute voter registration forms to its students. Voter registration forms are available at the ASUO office in Erb Memorial Union. ASUO can be contacted at 541-346-3724 or asuo@uoregon.edu . To register to vote, as an Oregon resident, you may obtain a voter registration form or register online at the Secretary of State’s website . For you to be eligible to vote in an election, your voter registration must be complete at least 21 days before the election. If your home state is other than Oregon, you may use the national form available from the U.S. Election Assistance Commission or visit your home state's Secretary of State website. RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.