TEACH Grant | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home TEACH Grant The TEACH Grant provides up to $4,000* per year to students who agree to serve for four years as a highly-qualified teacher in certain high-need fields at a low-income school . *On August 2, 2011 Congress passed the Budget Control Act of 2011. This put into place automatic federal budget cuts known as a "sequester." For TEACH Grants first disbursed on or after Oct. 1, 2021, and before Oct. 1, 2023, the award amount must be reduced by 5.7 percent from the award amount for which a recipient would otherwise have been eligible. Failure to Complete Service Obligation Recipients who fail to complete the service obligation for this program will have their TEACH Grant(s) converted to Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans . If the grant is converted to a loan, retroactive interest will be applied at a rate of 6.8 percent accrued from the date each grant was originally disbursed. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that approximately 80 percent of students who receive a TEACH Grant will fail to complete the service requirement. The chart below shows an example of the interest charged and repayment amounts for a student who received $16,000 of TEACH Grant funds and failed to meet the service obligation of the program. If you pay the interest at the time the TEACH Grant funds are converted to a loan: If you do not pay the interest and it is capitalized: TEACH Grant Amount $16,000 $16,000 Accrued interest from September 1, 2008 to June 1, 2017 (6.8% fixed-interest rate) $7,708 (paid at time of conversion to a loan) $7,708 (capitalized) Principal to be repaid $16,000 $23,708 Monthly Payment (Standard Repayment Plan) $184 $273 Number of Payments 120 120 Total Amount Repaid $22,095 $32,740 Plus: Interest paid at time of conversion $7,708 0 Grand Total Repaid $29,803 $32,740 The Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships believes it is important for students to thoroughly understand the service requirements for this program and thoughtfully determine whether it is appropriate to participate. Failure to complete the service requirements will greatly increase a student’s college loan debt. Eligibility Only students pursuing a first bachelor's degree or a master's degree are eligible for a TEACH Grant at the University of Oregon. Students pursuing only a teacher licensure or a second bachelor's degree are not eligible. Students must be actively pursuing course work within a major that will enable them to teach in a federal or state-recognized high-need field, at a low income school , as a highly qualified teacher. High Need Fields Nationally recognized high-need fields are: mathematics, science, foreign language, bilingual education, English language acquisition, special education, and reading specialist. Individual states may recognize additional fields. These state-recognized fields are only valid for the TEACH Grant if recognized in the state in which you intend to teach. All fields designated by a state are subject to change each year. Individual fields may no longer be considered high need by the time you begin your teaching service and would not then qualify as eligible service for the TEACH Grant. For any student who submits this application, our office will review eligibility for the grant using information in a student's current academic record. However, there may be situations where the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships will need to request additional information from the student in order to document eligibility. Academic Requirements Students must either earn a GPA of 3.25 or better based on their class status (as described below) or have scored in the 75th percentile or better on at least one battery of a nationally normed admission test (such as SAT or GRE). Class Status GPA Standard Undergraduate freshman students Earn a high school GPA of 3.25 or better Incoming undergraduate transfer students Earn a transfer GPA of 3.25 or better Continuing UO undergraduate students Earn a UO GPA of 3.25 or better Incoming graduate students Earn an undergraduate GPA of 3.25 or better Continuing UO graduate students Earn a UO GPA of 3.25 or better For students who do not meet the 75th percentile qualifier, their cumulative GPA must remain at or above 3.25 to continue to receive the grant for future terms. GPA is reviewed at the conclusion of every term to determine eligibility for the next term. Note that the GPA requirements may not apply to graduate students who are current or former teachers. To Apply Complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year Complete TEACH Grant Initial and Subsequent Counseling and the TEACH Grant Agreement to Serve and Repay (Agreement) with the U.S. Department of Education each year Advising We strongly recommend students take advantage of the advising services provided by the College of Education for educator preparation program requirements and career opportunities. TEACH Grant Exit Counseling Students who complete or discontinue their TEACH Grant eligible program at the University of Oregon are required to complete TEACH Grant Exit Counseling . In This Section Grants Federal Emergency CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants (HEERF) Higher Education Relief Funds (HEERF) TEACH Grant Work-Study Loans Direct Loan Subsidized Direct Loan Unsubsidized Graduate PLUS Loan Parent PLUS Loan Loan Repayment Alternative Student Loans Summer Aid Study Abroad RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.