Scholarships | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Scholarships Find Scholarships Scholarships are available to incoming students and to those who are already attending the UO. Find scholarships, deadlines, and other important information by choosing your status below. First-Year Students Welcome to your home for scholarships, new students! Find scholarships you might be eligible for and see how to apply. First-Year Scholarships Current and Transfer Students Explore the different scholarships that will help you continue to fund your education as a Duck. Current and Transfer Scholarships Graduate and Law Students Whether you're working toward your master's or law degree, there are scholarships to help you along the way. Graduate and Law Scholarships International Students As an international student, you may be eligible for specialized scholarships. Look through your options to find the best fit. International Scholarships Other Scholarships Bulletin Board Apply for UO Scholarships The UO Scholarship Dashboard is your entry point for scholarships offered by the UO Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships, and for select colleges and departments. 1) Apply for Admission Before applying for scholarships, you must submit an application for admission to the University of Oregon. If you are already an enrolled student, skip to step 3. Apply Here 2) Locate your UO Student ID Within days of applying for admission, you can find your UO Student ID number in your Status Portal. You’ll need this number to create an account to apply for UO scholarships. 3) Log into the Dashboard Log in to the UO Scholarship Dashboard and apply for scholarships. Dashboard Login Here The University of Oregon Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships partners with outside servicers to streamline access for students and applicants to many scholarship opportunities offered by the university. NexGen Scholarship Manager delivers our scholarship application, and matching and selection software. For more on the partnerships between the UO and this provider, please contact us . Helping You Access Higher Education Scholarships are based on merit, need, or a combination of both, and do not need to be repaid after graduation. Whatever your situation, scholarships can be a vital piece in funding your education. Scholarship Application Tips Contact Us 260 Oregon Hall Eugene, OR 97403 Our Current Office Hours 541-346-3221 Email Frequently Asked Questions Scholarship Workshops Need some guidance and tips on how best to search and apply for scholarships? The Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships holds a number of workshops throughout the academic year to help students with their scholarship hunt and application process. Find a Workshop RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.