Frequently Asked Questions | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Frequently Asked Questions Before the Term Begins Where do I start? Have I done everything I need to for my financial aid to be on time? How do I pay for college if my parents do not take out the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan? What do I do if I have accepted all of my financial aid and it is still not enough to pay for school? Am I eligible for financial aid? How do I qualify for resident tuition rates? I have special circumstances where my financial situation has changed since filing the FAFSA. What are my options? I have unusual circumstances concerning the relationship with my parents. What are my options to be considered an independent student for financial aid purposes? An outside agency needs your office to provide information about my financial aid to verify my eligibility for their program. Can your office help? I am a veteran. What other services are available to me? During the Term Where is my financial aid refund? What happens if I withdraw from school before the term is over? What happens if I do not pass all of my classes? What if I drop a class? My Last Term What do I need to do when I graduate, transfer, or stop attending the University of Oregon? Where can I find information about loan repayment? Where can I find out how much I borrowed in student loans? Where do I start? Your first step is to apply for financial aid . You should also explore your scholarship options . Have I done everything I need to for my financial aid to be on time? Here are ways to check on your progress: Check DuckWeb to make sure your enrollment level is full time. If you will not be attending full time, contact our office. Check DuckWeb to make sure you have completed all financial aid requirements. Carefully review the financial aid checklist . How do I pay for college if my parents do not take out the Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan? Because of federal loan limits, students may not have enough federal funds to cover all tuition, room and board, books, supplies, and personal expenses. If students are looking for a source of aid to replace the offered Parent PLUS Loan, students have the option of applying for an Alternative Student Loan . If a parent is ineligible for the PLUS, they may appeal the credit decision, pursue the loan with the help of a cosigner, or the student may request additional unsubsidized loans . Note that federal loan limits determine the amount of additional unsubsidized loans. What do I do if I have accepted all of my financial aid and it is still not enough to pay for school? If you do not have enough federal aid to cover all costs associated with attending the University of Oregon, we recommend speaking with a counselor in our office during drop-in hours . Am I eligible for financial aid? Not only must you apply for financial aid , but you must meet specific criteria to be eligible for aid . This includes eligibility requirements, rights and responsibilities, and aggregate Pell Grant and loan limits. How do I qualify for resident tuition rates? Nonresident sudents seeking eligibility for resident tuition rates may review the residency rules for the University of Oregon. I have special circumstances where my financial situation has changed since filing the FAFSA. What are my options? The financial information reported on the FAFSA cannot be updated to reflect your current financial situation. For special circumstances such as the loss of a job, a large reduction in income, or extraordinary medical expenses, please do the following: To estimate how a change in your family income might impact your student aid index ( replaces "estimated family contribution" beginning with 2024-25 FAFSA ), use our Net Price Calculator to simulate a recalculation of your student aid index using more recent income information. That will allow you to see how this could potentially impact eligibility for financial aid. If the Net Price Calculator results in projecting a change in financial aid eligibility using more recent income, please contact a financial aid counselor to provide details of the changes to your financial situation as well submit documentation of income such as tax documents, W2s, pay stubs, etc. I have unsual circumstances concerning the relationship with my parents. What are my options to be considered an independent student for fianncial aid purposes? The FAFSA has published criteria for what makes a student independent. For students that do not meet the federal criteria to be an independent student, but have unusual circumstances, they may provide additional information and request a dependency override . I am a veteran. What other services are available to me? Financial aid is available for eligible students that apply . The UO also has many Veteran Services offered by multiple departments. Where is my financial aid refund? Financial aid typically pays to your UO student account prior to the start of each term. If your financial aid is greater than the amount owed on your student account, a refund is issued. To check the disbursement date for a given term, use the Academic Calendar . If this date has come and you have not received your aid, it may be due to one of these common reasons: You are set up for full-time aid, but are not registered for enough credits . You are not making satisfactory academic progress . You have not completed all requirements to be eligible for aid. Check DuckWeb . Your aid has paid, but was not larger than your bill. Check DuckWeb . If none of these reasons apply to you, contact us . What happens if I withdraw from school before the term is over? If you withdraw from school you may be expected to repay a portion of your financial aid . According to a formula prescribed by federal regulations, any refundable amount used to pay tuition and fees or for university housing is returned to the appropriate financial aid sources. You may be required to provide proof of participation . You are also required to complete Exit Counseling . What happens if I do not pass all of my classes? What if I drop a class? As a recipient of financial aid you must make satisfactory academic progress . If you fail, withdraw from, or do not participate in your courses, it may impact your eligibility for financial aid. If you change your enrollment level before the census date , your aid will be revised accordingly. An outside agency needs your office to provide information about my financial aid to verify my eligibility for their program. Can your office help? Yes, we can help. If the agency has a form they would like completed, please bring the form into our office so we can complete the school section. We will then give the completed form back to you to submit to the agency if you so choose. If the agency does not have their own form, we have a version available in our office. Note: The Higher Education Act does not allow us to share data from your FAFSA directly with certain outside agencies, even with your written permission. What do I need to do when I graduate, transfer, or stop attending the University of Oregon? If you are graduating, read our flyer about graduating from the University of Oregon (PDF). If you are leaving the UO and have borrowed student loans see our loan repayment page . Where can I find information about loan repayment? See our loan repayment page for detailed information about repayment options, forgiveness programs, and consolidation. Where can I find out how much I borrowed in student loans? You can access your aggregate student loan borrowing at the National Student Loan Data System (NSLDS). RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.