Financial Aid Offer | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Financial Aid Offer Newly admitted students that have met the priority FAFSA deadline begin receiving financial aid offers in the mail starting in late March . * Continuing students are notified that their financial aid offer is available on DuckWeb starting in June after spring grades. Financial aid offers are mailed throughout the year based on the date the FAFSA was completed. After you receive your financial aid offer, complete the financial aid checklist . Newly Admitted Students Your financial aid offer will outline the types and amounts of financial aid for which you are eligible during the academic year: Grants and scholarships : it is assumed you wish to accept these funds so they are "accepted" by default Work-study and loans : offered as "pending" and must be actively accepted If you are not sure if you want to accept a loan, it is better to accept it now and make changes later so you have time to plan for the coming year. Funds are limited so if you decline a loan now, we may not be able to reinstate it later. Your financial aid offer represents the UO’s best offer of assistance based on your Student Aid Index ( replaces "estimated family contribution" beginning with the 2024-25 FAFSA ). Financial aid offers cannot be negotiated and we do not match offers from other schools. If you or your parents have experienced a sudden loss of income (divorce, death, job loss, etc.) please contact our office. New and Continuing Students To view your offer on DuckWeb , click through these links: Student Menu Financial Aid Information Menu Financial Aid Offer Select Aid Year Aid Overview *FAFSA Update: While the 2024–25 FAFSA has been available since early January, no FAFSAs have been processed by the U.S. Department of Education or sent to schools yet (including the University of Oregon). This may impact the typical time frame for financial aid offers, as the UO generally receives FAFSA data much sooner than this. Once a student’s FAFSA data is received by the UO, the student will receive a confirmation email that will provide an update on the expected time frame for financial aid offers. The University of Oregon is committed to using the Principles and Standards of the College Cost Transparency Initiative in its student financial aid offer. In This Section Financial Aid Offer Accept Work-Study and Loans Create a Budget Revising Your Financial Aid Revised Offer Report Additional Resources Receipt of Financial Aid Eligibility Federal Eligibility Enrollment Satisfactory Academic Progress Student Financial Aid Appeal Procedures Participation Requirements Return of Financial Aid Rights and Responsibilities RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.