Return of Title IV (Federal) Funds - R2T4 | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Return of Title IV (Federal) Funds - R2T4 Though your financial aid is posted to your student billing account near the start of each payment period (academic term), you earn the funds as you complete the period. If you withdraw during your payment period, the amount of Title IV program assistance that you have earned up to that point is determined by a specific formula. If you received (or your school or parent received on your behalf) less assistance than the amount that you earned, you may be able to receive those additional funds. If you received more assistance than you earned, the excess funds must be returned by the school and/or you. Since financial aid is "earned" for each day that a student participates (attends class, posts in an online course discussion, etc.), you may be expected to repay the “unearned” portion of your financial aid if you withdraw from school or receive any combination of non-passing grades (F, N, W, or X) in all courses in a particular term. You are also required to complete exit counseling . Official Withdrawal: Your withdrawal date is the date that you provide official notification that you will be withdrawing from the university. This date is stored with the Office of the University Registrar and will be used to recalculate financial aid eligibility. Unofficial Withdrawal: If you 'stop-out' or cease attending without providing official notification of withdrawal, your withdrawal date will be the mid-point of the payment period and will be used to recalculate financial aid eligibility.  As we are an institution that is not required to take attendance, we will determine if any financial aid must be returned if you receive any combination of non-passing grades (F, N, W, or X) in all courses in a particular term. Once we can document that you have completed more than 60% of the payment period, you earn all the assistance that you were scheduled to receive for that period. Timeframe for Returns: Title IV program funds will be returned as soon as possible, but no later than 45 days after we determine a student withdrew. Financial aid is returned in the following order: Federal Direct Unsubsidized loans (other than PLUS loans) Federal Direct Subsidized loans Federal Direct PLUS loans Federal Pell Grants Federal SEOG Federal TEACH Grants Federal Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grant Aid disbursed to you is considered in the calculation of your aid eligibility upon withdrawal. Aid for the term from which you withdrew, for which you were eligible and that was not disbursed to you, is also used in the calculation under certain conditions. Below are two examples of the calculations used to determine the amount of unearned aid a student would be expected to repay based on the reported last day of attendance of the term from which a student has withdrawn. Example 1 Donald Duck stopped attending classes on January 26 and contacted Academic Advising to withdraw from the university. The term began on January 5 and is 75 days long. Donald has attended 22 days and has earned 29.3 percent of his financial aid (22 days divided by 75 days equals 29.3 percent). Donald received in aid: Aid Amount Federal Direct Subsidized Loan $1167 Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan $1500 Federal Pell Grant $1000 Total aid winter term $3667 The amount of federal aid earned is 29.3% x $3667 = $1074.43 . Total federal aid unearned is $3667 - $1074.43 = $2592.57 . The second calculation determines percentage of amount unearned based on school charges for tuition and housing. Donald was charged $1,843 in tuition and did not live on campus. Percentage of unearned aid for this second calculation is 100% - 29.3% = 70.7% . Therefore, based on the tuition charges for the term, $1843 x 70.7% = $1303. The amount of federal aid Donald must return is the lesser of step 2 or 3 ($1,303 in our example). Federal guidelines determine the order of aid types to be reduced: Direct Subsidized Loan, Parent PLUS Loan, and then Pell Grant until $1,303 has been repaid. Therefore Donald’s aid will be reduced to: Aid Amount Returned Total Federal Direct Subsidized Loan $1167 - $1167 = $0 Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan $1500 - $136 = $1364 Federal Pell Grant $1000 - $0 = $1000 Total returned $1303 The total returned amount reflects the amount to be billed to Donald’s student billing account from his financial aid. Any refunds from tuition that are determined and applied to his account may affect the amount that Donald owes for winter term. Please review related topic links below. Example 2 Daisy Duck stopped attending classes on January 10 and contacted Academic Advising to do a complete withdrawal. The term began on January 5 and is 75 days long. Daisy has attended six days and has earned eight percent of her financial aid (six days divided by 75 days equals eight percent ). Daisy received in aid: Aid Amount Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan $862 Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan $1000 Federal Pell Grant $1350 Total aid winter term $3212 The amount of federal aid earned is 8% x $3212 = $256.96 . Total federal aid unearned is $3212 - $256.96 = $2955.04 . The second calculation determines percentage of amount unearned based on school charges for tuition and housing. Daisy was charged $1,843 in tuition and $2,298 for housing. Percentage of unearned aid is 100% - 8% = 92.0% . Therefore, based on the charges for the term, $4141 x 92.0% = $3809.72 . The amount of federal aid Daisy must return is the lesser of step 2 or 3 ($2,955.04 in our example). Federal guidelines determine the order of aid types to be reduced: Direct Unsubsidized Loan, Parent Plus Loan, and then Pell Grant until $2,955 has been repaid. Therefore Daisy’s aid will be reduced to: Aid Amount Returned Total Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan $862 - $862 = $0 Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loan $1000 - $1000 = $0 Federal Pell Grant $1,350 - $1,093 = $257 Total returned $2,955 The total returned amount reflects the amount to be billed to Daisy’s student billing account from her financial aid. Any refunds from tuition that are determined and applied to her account may affect the amount that Daisy owes for winter term. If as a result of the return calculation a student (or parent) is owed a credit balance (refund), after all allowable charges are paid on the student’s billing account, the credit balance will be issued as soon as possible and no later than 14 days. If you did not receive all of the funds that you earned, you may be due a post-withdrawal disbursement. If eligible for Title IV grant funds, they will be posted to your student billing account within 45 days of withdrawing. If your post-withdrawal disbursement includes loan funds, we must get your permission before we can disburse them. If eligible for Title IV loan funds, you will be notified via email within 30 days, and be given 14 days to respond. You may choose to decline some or all of the loan funds so that you don’t incur additional debt. We may automatically use all or a portion of your post-withdrawal disbursement of grant funds for tuition, fees, and room and board charges (as contracted with the school). The school needs your permission (which may already be on file) to use the post-withdrawal grant disbursement for all other school charges. If you do not give your permission, you will be offered the funds. However, it may be in your best interest to allow the school to keep the funds to reduce your debt at the school.  If the post-withdrawal disbursements result in a credit balance (refund) owed to the student (or parent), after all allowable charges are paid on the student’s billing account, the credit balance will be issued as soon as possible and no later than 14 days. Treatment of Title IV Aid When a Student Withdraws The law specifies how your school must determine the amount of Title IV program assistance that you earn if you withdraw from school. The Title IV programs that are covered by this law are: Federal Pell Grants, Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants, TEACH Grants, Direct Loans, Direct PLUS Loans, and Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (FSEOGs). Though your aid is posted to your account at the start of each period, you earn the funds as you complete the period. If you withdraw during your payment period or period of enrollment (your school can define these for you and tell you which one applies), the amount of Title IV program assistance that you have earned up to that point is determined by a specific formula. If you received (or your school or parent received on your behalf) less assistance than the amount that you earned, you may be able to receive those additional funds. If you received more assistance than you earned, the excess funds must be returned by the school and/or you. The amount of assistance that you have earned is determined on a pro rata basis. For example, if you completed 30% of your payment period or period of enrollment, you earn 30% of the assistance you were originally scheduled to receive. Once you have completed more than 60% of the payment period or period of enrollment, you earn all the assistance that you were scheduled to receive for that period. If you did not receive all of the funds that you earned, you may be due a post-withdrawal disbursement. If your post-withdrawal disbursement includes loan funds, your school must get your permission before it can disburse them. You may choose to decline some or all of the loan funds so that you don’t incur additional debt. Your school may automatically use all or a portion of your post-withdrawal disbursement of grant funds for tuition, fees, and room and board charges (as contracted with the school). The school needs your permission to use the post-withdrawal grant disbursement for all other school charges. If you do not give your permission (some schools ask for this when you enroll), you will be offered the funds. However, it may be in your best interest to allow the school to keep the funds to reduce your debt at the school. There are some Title IV funds that you were scheduled to receive that cannot be disbursed to you once you withdraw because of other eligibility requirements. If you receive (or your school or parent receive on your behalf) excess Title IV program funds that must be returned, your school must return a portion of the excess equal to the lesser of: 1. your institutional charges multiplied by the unearned percentage of your funds, or 2. the entire amount of excess funds. The school must return this amount even if it didn’t keep this amount of your Title IV program funds. If your school is not required to return all of the excess funds, you must return the remaining amount. Any loan funds that you must return, you (or your parent for a Direct PLUS Loan) repay in accordance with the terms of the promissory note. That is, you make scheduled payments to the holder of the loan over a period of time. Any amount of unearned grant funds that you must return is called an overpayment. The maximum amount of a grant overpayment that you must repay is half of the grant funds you received or were scheduled to receive. You do not have to repay a grant overpayment if the original amount of the overpayment is $50 or less. You must make arrangements with your school or the Department of Education to return the unearned grant funds. The requirements for Title IV program funds when you withdraw are separate from any refund policy that your school may have. Therefore, you may still owe funds to the school to cover unpaid institutional charges. Your school may also charge you for any Title IV program funds that the school was required to return. If you don’t already know your school’s refund policy , you should ask your school for a copy. Your school can also provide you with the requirements and procedures for officially withdrawing from school. If you have questions about your Title IV program funds, you can call the Federal Student Aid Information Center at 1-800-4-FEDAID (1-800-433-3243). TTY users may call 1-800-730-8913. Information is also available on Student Aid on the Web at www.studentaid.ed.gov . More information: Refund Schedules Academic Advising Satisfactory Academic Progress In This Section Financial Aid Offer Accept Work-Study and Loans Create a Budget Revising Your Financial Aid Revised Offer Report Additional Resources Receipt of Financial Aid Eligibility Federal Eligibility Enrollment Satisfactory Academic Progress Student Financial Aid Appeal Procedures Participation Requirements Return of Financial Aid Rights and Responsibilities RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.