About Us | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Back to Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Menu Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Highlighted Subsections Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Highlighted Subsections Meet Our Team Friends of the Program In the News Breadcrumb Home Financial Wellness About Us The Financial Wellness Center (FWC) is a collaborative effort between the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships and the Lundquist College of Business. The center is devoted to helping students at the University of Oregon become capable and confident in their ability to successfully manage their personal finances. Our curriculum and educational efforts derive from the research conducted by the Financial Literacy Education Commission (a program created by the Department of Treasury to address Americans’ financial literacy education concerns). The conclusion of their research produced the five critical areas of holistic financial wellness, which are: Earning Spending Borrowing Protecting Saving and investing We take these five critical areas and strategically address the learning that needs to take place before students graduate, in order to hit the ground running. The FWC provides services that include quarterly workshops, one-on-one peer financial coaching sessions, and learning opportunities that are catered to your specific group, by request, that can help students manage their money and make informed financial decisions. Topics we cover include: Money management Budgeting Responsible borrowing Protecting your identity Credit management Studying abroad Preparing for work after college Navigating work benefits and salary negotiations Student loan repayment The Financial Wellness Center has highly trained UO students who act as peer financial coaches. These students help lead our workshops and provide one-on-one coaching. Our peer financial coaches are well-equipped to discuss a range of financial topics, including budgeting, student loan repayment, and building and managing credit, to name just a few. Individual coaching appointments with a peer financial coach are available Monday–Friday. If you would like to schedule an appointment to meet with a peer financial coach, use our online form . If you are interested about our other services, please email us at financialwellness@uoregon.edu . Meet Our Team Friends of the Program In the News This website and the information provided by the UO’s Financial Wellness team is for general educational purposes only. It is not intended to be used as investment, legal, and/or tax advice, or to be the basis of specific financial planning activities. If you need investment, legal, and/or tax advice, please consult with one of those professionals. The links to third-party financial resources are provided as a convenience for informational purposes only. Neither the UO or its Financial Wellness team endorses or approves any of the products, services, or opinions of the entities or individuals associated with these links. The UO and its Financial Wellness team bear no responsibility for the accuracy, legality, or content of any external site associated with the links provided or any subsequent links. RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.