Work-Study | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Work-Study Become a Work-Study Employer Is your off-campus employer interested in joining the federal work-study program? Learn how . Earn money for college expenses by working on campus, in the government, or in selected nonprofit agencies serving the community. Through the federally funded work-study program, students may work up to 25 hours per week, while classes are in session, and receive a monthly paycheck (based on an hourly wage) that they can use for educational expenses. Work schedules must not conflict with a student's class schedule. Eligibility Federal work-study is available to students that have significant financial need, are eligible for federal financial aid, and meet the University of Oregon's priority deadline of March 1 for filing the FAFSA. Funding is limited, and availability may change each year depending on how the program is funded and the number of applicants. Receipt of federal work-study does not guarantee employment. For information on available job opportunities and assistance locating a position, please contact the University Career Center . Read answers to frequently asked questions about work-study. Law Students First-year law students are generally not offered work-study due to the time constraints of the law program. However, if a first-year law student is offered a work-study position, the student may petition for receipt of work-study eligibility. Work-study can only be offered to eligible students who submit a FAFSA. Find Other Jobs The work-study program is not the only way to find a job on or near campus. Here are some other resources: Visit Handshake for job and internship postings . Check out tips for finding part-time work . Attend an upcoming event or job fair . Connect with the University Career Center . In This Section Grants Federal Emergency CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants (HEERF) Higher Education Relief Funds (HEERF) TEACH Grant Work-Study Loans Direct Loan Subsidized Direct Loan Unsubsidized Graduate PLUS Loan Parent PLUS Loan Loan Repayment Alternative Student Loans Summer Aid Study Abroad RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.