Financial Wellness | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Back to Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Menu Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Highlighted Subsections Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Breadcrumb Home Financial Wellness Get a Head Start on Your Financial Future At the Financial Wellness Center, our goal is to help you gain the confidence and knowledge you need to make smart financial decisions during and after college. We want you to get a head start on your future. Schedule a Coaching Session Check out Workshops and Events Listen to Financially Free Ducks Podcast We're Here to Help Many students have little to no financial experience after graduation. It can take five to seven years for graduates to build credit, make sound money habits, and invest in their futures. The Financial Wellness Center exists to get you financially prepared before you take your next steps off campus. Interact with educators online, attend upcoming events, and/or schedule an individual coaching appointment to start tackling your finances. We want to make your transition into the real world as smooth as possible. Resources Budgeting Budgeting is a great place to start your financial wellness journey. Learn how to manage your income expenses, daily spending, and establish a long-term budgeting plan. Learn more Obtaining Scholarships Scholarships can significantly lower your educational costs. Gain helpful tools, resources, and strategies on scholarship applications so you can get as much financial aid as possible. Learn more Student Loans Student loan debt can be a pain after graduation. Start creating a plan for student loan debt now to reduce stress and avoid unforeseen financial issues down the road. Learn more Credit Management Start building your credit and protecting your identity now to save thousands of dollars in the future. We can show you some easy steps to help you establish credit and get a jumpstart on investments. Learn more Saving and Investing Save up for the future and make smart investments. We'll teach you the fundamentals of saving and investing so you can make the most out of your dollar. Learn more Preparing for Post-Grad Life Jumping into the real world can be intimidating. We can help you master salary negotiations, wages, taxes, car buying, and other important financial processes so you'll be prepared after graduation. Learn more Financial Wellness Center Global Scholars Hall 117 1710 East 15th Avenue Eugene, OR 97403 M 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. T 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. W 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. TH 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. F 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Connect With Us Email : financialwellness@uoregon.edu Please allow 1–2 business days for email responses. Mailing Address: 1278 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-1278 RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.