Federal Emergency CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants (HEERF) | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Federal Emergency CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants (HEERF) The UO received federal stimulus funds under the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF). In March 2020, congress enacted the Federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. As part of the CARES Act, the UO received $16,095,946, through funds known as HEERF I. Of these funds, $8,047,973 were reserved to provide financial support to students impacted by a disruption in campus operations due to the coronavirus. In December 2020, the UO received an additional $8,047,973 in funding for students through the Federal Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA), known as HEERF II. In May 2021, the UO received an additional $21,425,659 in funding for students through the Federal American Rescue Plan Act (ARP) Act, known as HEERF III. The university acknowledges that it has signed and returned the Certification and Agreement to the Department of Education and will use no less than 50 percent of the funds received under Section 18004(a)(1) of the CARES Act, CRRSAA, and ARP Act to provide Emergency Financial Aid Grants to students. November Update: A limited number of $1,000 grants were awarded to enrolled seniors with the greatest need and  a significant outstanding balance as of November 1, 2022. All HEERF funding has now been exhausted and no future disbursements will be made. COVID-19 Isolation Fund (No longer available as funds have been exhausted) Students that have tested positive for COVID-19 and are experiencing financial hardship may be eligible to apply for HEERF Funds to assist with the cost of a required period of self-isolation. Impacted students can apply for and receive up to $700 for documented hotel and food costs incurred while in a standard self-isolation period of time. Applications for funding will be considered on a funds-available basis. Documentation of expenses is required. Federal American Rescue Plan Act Grant (HEERF III) ARP Act funds will be awarded to eligible undergraduate, graduate, and law students that are enrolled at the UO and who have demonstrated need. Additional details about eligibility and awards for the 2021-2022 academic year can be found here . Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) - Emergency Grant 2021-22 The University of Oregon received funds through the Federal Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) to allocate to students who have incurred expenses related to the COVID-19 pandemic. HEERF Emergency Grant 2021-22 Application (November 23 - April 30) Applications for funding will be considered on a funds-available basis. Documentation of expenses is required. Eligibility: Currently enrolled at the UO Students who have not already received HEERF Grant funds in 2021-22 based upon need from FAFSA or ORSAA information. Students who have not already received HEERF Grant funds in 2021-22 based upon completing the HEERF application for international students. Students with current documented expenses incurred during the 2021-22 academic year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Federal Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act Grant (HEERF II) CRRSAA funds will be awarded to eligible undergraduate, graduate, and law students who are currently enrolled at the UO and who have demonstrated exceptional need based on their FAFSA information. There is no application process and awards will be a fixed amount of $900 spring term 2021. CRRSAA awards for spring term 2021 have been made and all recipients have been notified via email. Students that are experiencing financial hardship due to a required COVID-19 self-isolation may be eligible to apply for the COVID-19 Isolation Fund. Federal Eligibility Criteria Undergraduate, graduate and law students eligible to complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Students identified as having exceptional need based on their FAFSA information. Eligible expenses that are a part of a student's cost of attendance or emergency costs such as tuition, food, housing, health care, or child care. CRRSAA Recipients Spring 2021 Fixed amounts of $900 to students with exceptional need based on their FAFSA information that meet eligibility criteria. Fixed amounts of $587 to students with need based on their FAFSA information that meet eligibility criteria and had requested a triple room for their housing option. Emergency CARES Act Grant (HEERF I) These funds went to eligible UO students that completed the online CARES Act Grant application and demonstrated eligible expenses related to the coronavirus such as medical, food, housing, utility and technology expenses; relocation costs to return home; unexpected childcare; course materials; and other unexpected expenses included in the student’s cost of college attendance. Requests to fund expenses for housing and food were only considered if the costs were new or unexpected, such as when the student had experienced a loss of employment. Award amounts varied by student and were unique to each student’s circumstances and specific expenses. The university experienced significant demand for the funds, and award amounts were sometimes less than the amount requested by the student as CARES funding was limited. Applications were no longer accepted once funds were exhausted. Eligibility Undergraduate, graduate and law students eligible to complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). International, DACA, or undocumented students were not eligible. Eligible expenses related to the coronavirus such as medical, and technology expenses, unexpected childcare, course materials, and other unexpected expenses included in the student’s cost of college attendance. Students not exclusively taking online courses (does not include courses that moved to remote instruction due to campus disruptions). FAQs Is there any other emergency support available? The UO has institutional funds available to assist students. These include the UO Students in Crisis Fund, where students can apply for assistance through the Office of the Dean of Students . How long does it take to process my isolation fund application? Applications are being reviewed on an ongoing basis. Applications will be processed as quickly as possible but decisions and notifications may take up to two weeks. How do I know my isolation fund application was successfully submitted? Log into the Scholarship Dashboard and choose the "Opportunities" tab. Select the "Specialty Awards" and then review your application. How do I modify my isolation fund application after I submit it? If you wish to provide additional information or changes after submitting your application, you must contact our office via email to request instructions on how to have your completed application status changed. Where might I find more information on why my isolation fund application was not approved? Contact our office via email for information on why your application was not approved. If I receive HEERF will it reduce my financial aid? No. HEERF does not count as financial aid received, and does not impact your other financial aid. Will I have to include HEERF in my income for tax purposes? The Internal Revenue Service has indicated that any HEERF that you receive is usually not includable in your gross income*. *Please consult a tax professional as there may be limited situations where it may count as income. Key Data Regarding Federal ARP Act Grants (HEERF III) Total ARP Act funds received for students: $21,425,659 Total Federal ARP Act funds distributed: $21,425,659 Number of students eligible to participate in Title IV: 11,512 Number of UO students who received federal ARP Act grants: 7,478 Last updated November 4, 2022 Key Data Regarding Federal CRRSAA Grants (HEERF II) Total CRRSAA Act funds received for students: $8,047,973 Total Federal CRRSAA funds distributed: $8,047,973 Number of students eligible to participate in Title IV: 10,948 Number of students who have submitted applications for CRRSAA isolation funds: 5,254 Number of UO students who received federal CRRSAA grants: 7,445 Last updated November 4, 2022 Key Data Regarding Federal CARES Act Grants (HEERF I) Total CARES Act funds received for students: $8,047,973 Total Federal CARES Act funds distributed: $8,047,973 Number of students eligible to participate in Title IV: 10,948 Number of students who have submitted applications for CARES funds: 7,931 Number of UO students who received federal CARES Act grants: 5,633 Last updated November 4, 2022 HEERF Reports on Institutional and Student Spending 9/30/23 Report on Institutional and Student Spending 6/30/23 Report on Institutional and Student Spending 3/31/23 Report on Institutional and Student Spending 12/31/22 Report on Institutional and Student Spending 9/30/22 Report on Institutional and Student Spending 6/30/22 REVISED Report on Institutional and Student Spending 6/30/22 Report on Institutional and Student Spending 3/31/22 Report on Institutional Spending 12/31/21 Report on Instituitional Spending 9/30/21 Report on Institutional Spending 6/30/21 REVISED Report on Institutional Spending 6/30/21 Report on Institutional Spending 3/31/21 Report on Institutional Spending 12/31/20 Report on Institutional Spending 9/30/20 Report on Institutional Spending 3/31/22 Report on Student Spending 12/31/21 Report on Student Spending 9/30/21 Report on Student Spending 6/30/2021 Report on Student Spending 3/31/2021 Report on Student Spending Federal CARES Act, CRRSAA & ARP Act Grant Disbursement Process (HEERF) Students that already have set up Direct Deposit will have the CARES Act, CRRSAA or ARP Act Grant deposited directly into that bank account. Otherwise a paper check will be delivered to the mailing address on DuckWeb. For this reason it is important the mailing address on DuckWeb is up to date. Students typically receive their CARES Act, CRRSAA or ARP Act Grant within a week from disbursement. The CARES Act, CRRSAA and ARP Act Grants do not apply to any outstanding balance owed to the UO; 100% of all CARES Act, CRRSAA and ARP Act Grant funds are refunded directly to students. RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.