Aid Types | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Aid Types Aid Types Financial aid at the University of Oregon can include grants, loans, scholarships, and work-study jobs. Your financial aid offer is based upon the information on your FAFSA (Free Application for Student Aid). After you successfully complete the FAFSA, the UO will send you a financial aid offer. Explore more about the types of financial aid in the links below. Scholarships Scholarships are based primarily on merit and do not have to be repaid after graduation. Scholarships Grants Grants provide funding that you don’t have to pay back after graduation. Grants Work-Study Earn money for college expenses by working on campus, in the government, or in select nonprofit agencies serving the community. Work-Study Loans Loans provide funding that you do have to pay back after graduation. Different loans accrue interest in different ways. Loans Study Abroad $400,000 total scholarship funds are awarded for study abroad each year. Learn about scholarships and other financial aid opportunities for study abroad. Study Abroad For Students Living in Oregon PathwayOregon This aid program ensures that academically qualified, Federal Pell Grant–eligible Oregon residents will have their UO tuition and fees paid with a combination of federal, state, and university funds. PathwayOregon Tuition Equity Under Oregon's House Bill 2787, certain students from Oregon who intend to become U.S. citizens may qualify for resident tuition rates. Tuition Equity Summer Aid Learn about financial aid for study during the summer term. Summer Aid In This Section Grants Federal Emergency CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants (HEERF) Higher Education Relief Funds (HEERF) TEACH Grant Work-Study Loans Direct Loan Subsidized Direct Loan Unsubsidized Graduate PLUS Loan Parent PLUS Loan Loan Repayment Alternative Student Loans Summer Aid Study Abroad RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.