PathwayOregon | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home PathwayOregon PathwayOregon is the University of Oregon’s promise of full tuition and fees, and comprehensive academic and personal support for qualifying Oregonians. Award Information PathwayOregon ensures that academically-qualified, Federal Pell Grant-eligible Oregonians will have 100 percent of their tuition and fees covered for up to 12 academic terms* for undergraduate study. This is funded through a combination of federal grants, state grants, and university grants and scholarships. In addition to financial support, the program provides comprehensive academic support and career guidance. Expenses for housing, food, books, etc. are not covered. * Students enrolled in a five-year degree program may be eligible for up to 15 academic terms of undergraduate study. These degree programs include BLA (landscape architecture), BIArch (interior architecture), and BArch (architecture). Selection Criteria PathwayOregon is awarded to incoming first-year students based on these criteria: Oregon residents who graduate from an Oregon high school Incoming domestic first-year student A minimum 3.40 cumulative high school grade point average on a 4.00 scale Eligible for a Federal Pell Grant** ** The Federal Pell Grant is a need-based award, eligibility for which is determined by the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). How to Apply You will be automatically considered for PathwayOregon if you meet the selection criteria noted above—no separate application is required. You must simply: Apply for admission by January 15 . Submit the FAFSA to the federal processor by March 1 and list the UO as one of your school choices (federal school code 003223). PathwayOregon Renewal Your renewal is evaluated annually at the end of each spring term. To renew, you must: Complete the FAFSA by March 1 . Remain eligible for the Federal Pell Grant. Complete any additional financial aid verification requirements by the Friday of week two of fall term. Register for full-time enrollment (12 or more UO credits) each term by the Financial Aid Census date (the last day to add a class). Explore the PathwayOregon website for more information. Complete terms and conditions can be found here . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.