Forms and Worksheets | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Forms and Worksheets Verification Worksheets If you have been selected for a process called verification we request that you submit a Verification Worksheet along with appropriate federal tax documents. Complete the worksheet and provide all necessary signatures before you submit it to us. Incomplete forms will be returned to you and may cause a delay in processing your aid application. 2024-25 Dependent Verification Worksheet Use if you were required to provide your parent's information on the 2024–25 FAFSA Independent Verification Worksheet Use if you were required to provide only your and, if you are married, your spouse's information on the 2024–25 FAFSA 2023-24 Dependent Verification Worksheet Use if you were required to provide your parent's information on the 2023–24 FAFSA Independent Verification Worksheet Use if you were required to provide only your and, if you are married, your spouse's information on the 2023–24 FAFSA Law Bar Expense Certification The University of Oregon may recognize certain expenses related to the cost of receiving your first professional credential as it relates to your academic program.  The costs must be incurred while the student is still enrolled at UO, even if the exam itself is taken after the period of enrollment. Law Bar Expense Certification Form (PDF) National Guard / Reservist Tuition Assistance Voyager Program Voyager is a financial aid benefit that is available to honor and support Oregon residents who served the nation as members of the National Guard or Reserves in an active duty capacity in a combat zone after September 11, 2001. Voyager Tuition Assistance Form (PDF) Ineligible Parent Borrower for Direct Parent PLUS Loan A dependent student whose parent is unable to borrow a Direct PLUS Loan due to adverse credit or other exceptional circumstances may receive additional Direct Unsubsidized Loan funds up to the same amount that is available to independent undergraduate students. Ineligible Parent Borrower for Direct Parent PLUS Loan Form (PDF) Request for a Revision to Financial Aid and Budget Students may have expenses greater than those reflected in the estimated student expenses portion of their financial aid offer. We recognize that some situations, if thoroughly documented, justify additional funding within the limits of federal and institutional policy. Students may also wish to revise their offer based on part-time enrollment or update their grade level status mid-year. Learn more about revising your financial aid . Financial Aid Revision Request Form (PDF) Child Care Form (PDF) Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal If you have been notified by the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships that you are ineligible to receive financial aid due to not making progress toward graduation , you are required to obtain an approved Satisfactory Academic Progress Appeal in order to receive financial aid at the University of Oregon in the future. Student Consent to Release Financial Aid and Scholarship Information The University of Oregon (UO) is committed to the privacy and security of our students. Pursuant to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), the University will not disclose personally identifiable information contained in the student's education records without the student's written consent, except to the extent authorized. Students may complete the form below to grant a third party (e.g. parent, spouse, etc.) permission to access their financial aid and scholarship information if the release is for the purpose of the application, awarding, disbursement, or administration of the federal, state, or institutional financial aid program. Student Consent to Release Financial Aid and Scholarship Information Form (PDF) RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.