National Merit Scholarship | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home National Merit Scholarship The National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC), in conjunction with the UO, awards merit scholarships to selected academically talented high school seniors for undergraduate studies at the University of Oregon. Award Information Prospective first-year students who have been awarded College-Sponsored Finalist standing, and who have listed the University of Oregon as their "first choice" school on the NMSC Scholarship Application, are eligible to receive an $8,000 National Merit Scholarship at the UO—$2,000 per year, renewable for up to four years of undergraduate study. Eligibility Requirements High school juniors from U.S. high schools who take the Preliminary SAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT ) are eligible for the Merit Scholarship Competition. How to Apply Students who are selected by the NMSC as Semifinalists must complete a detailed scholarship application. Application instructions are sent directly from the NMSC to qualified Semifinalists through their high schools. Qualified Finalists must apply for admission to the University of Oregon by January 15 . Selection Criteria Semifinalists compete to become a Finalist by completing the NMSC scholarship application, exhibiting high academic performance, and meeting all other requirements explained in information provided to each Semifinalist by the NMSC. Scholarship Renewal College-Sponsored National Merit Scholars who maintain a 3.25 UO GPA are eligible to renew their scholarships for up to four years of undergraduate study. Award Notification The National Merit Scholarship Corporation begins notifying finalists of their awards in early April. In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.