Apply for Financial Aid | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Apply for Financial Aid To apply for financial aid, complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year to apply for grants, loans, work-study, and some scholarships . Deadlines When applying for financial aid, pay careful attention to all deadlines. This includes the FAFSA priority deadline of March 1 , as well as deadlines for admissions and scholarships. Complete the FAFSA (UO School Code 003223) during the academic year prior to receiving your financial aid. For example, a student seeking financial aid for their freshman year, will apply for financial aid during their senior year of high school. To meet the FAFSA priority deadline of March 1 each year, complete the FAFSA once it becomes available in October of each year. If you submit the FAFSA after March 1, you will still be eligible for aid, but will not be considered for some funds. After You Apply After you successfully complete the FAFSA, the UO will send you a financial aid offer . Then you will need to complete the financial aid checklist . FAFSA COMPLETE THE FAFSA The UO's school code for the FAFSA is 003223 . Application Tips FAFSA Tips & Common Mistakes Tips for Adult Learners Tips for Servicemembers and Veterans Tips for Undocumented Students Tips for Unique Situations RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.