Drop-in Advising | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Drop-in Advising The Office of Student Financial Aid offers in-person and virtual drop-in advising for current students. These 10–15-minute appointments are designed to address your immediate financial aid questions and concerns. Drop-In Hours: Monday–Friday 9:00–11:45 a.m. and 1:00–3:45 p.m. In-Person Advising: Visit the Financial Aid Office on the second floor of Oregon Hall 287 Virtual Drop-In Advising (Via Microsoft Teams): You may request to be added to the virtual drop-in queue by clicking the button below, or by calling our office and requesting to be added to the Virtual Queue during counseling hours, listed above. Students will be assisted on a first come, first served basis. For virtual advising, you will need to either use a laptop/desktop computer or have Microsoft Teams downloaded on your mobile device . Prepare for Your Virtual Drop-In Counseling Session: Online Drop-In Advising will occur over the phone or computer/smartphone using Microsoft Teams . “Teams” is free to the UO community. Please download Microsoft Teams to your smartphone and/or computer. If you haven’t already, set up your Microsoft Teams account with your UO e-mail address . When a counselor becomes available, the counselor will call you via Teams. If we are unable to get in touch with you through Teams, the counselor will call you at the phone number you provided. Please note, when drop-in availability fills for the day, the dropin queue will be closed Virtual Drop-In Billing Questions If you have questions about the university bill, payment arrangements, charges, or registration holds, please contact the Student Billing department at 541-346-3170 or via email at stubills@uoregon.edu . RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.