Financially Free Ducks | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Back to Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Menu Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Highlighted Subsections Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Highlighted Subsections Budgeting Obtaining Scholarships Planning for Student Loans Credit Management Saving and Investing Post-Grad Life Breadcrumb Home Financial Wellness Financially Free Ducks Financially Free Ducks Podcast We are pleased to present Financially Free Ducks, a podcast for the University of Oregon community. Each episode is geared toward redefining what a conversation around personal finance can be. Our mission is to empower UO students, faculty members, staff, and others to gain confidence and knowledge through shared stories and experiences. We are helping the Duck community move closer to having the awareness to make smart financial decisions during and after college. May 08, 2024 Ep.16 Starting a Financial Journey with Jessica Patel Jessica Patel is the Creator of Groove Money and Head of Content and Learning Resources at the Singleton Foundation for Financial Literacy and Entrepreneurship. Groove is a financial wellness platform that uses habit building and educational resources to help its users. In this episode, Jessica shares why she and the Singleton Foundation created Groove, where the platform is going, and important aspects of financial wellness. She chats about budgeting and using financial planning to alleviate stress. April 19, 2024 Ep.14 Investing Part 3: What's a Mutual Fund Anyways? The Financially Free Ducks are celebrating Financial Literacy Month with a four-part series on investing. This week, Alex Hooks, a Peer Financial Coach at the Financial Wellness Center, breaks down what stocks, mutual funds, and bonds are. He gives listeners guidance on figuring out what kind of investment is right for them and shares a bit of his own experience. April 12, 2024 Ep.13 Investing Part 2: Retirement? April is National Financial Literacy Month, and we're celebrating here at the Financially Free Ducks with a four-part series on investing. Join us as Eliza Black, a Peer Financial Coach at the Financial Wellness Center, explains the difference between retirement accounts and regular brokerage accounts. In this episode, Eliza covers the meaning of tax-deferred, how to feel confident in investing, and more on how to get started. April 05, 2024 Ep.12 Investing Part 1: The Basics April is National Financial Literacy Month, and we're celebrating here at the Financially Free Ducks with a four-part series on investing. Join us as Solomon Bandy, a Peer Financial Coach at the Financial Wellness Center, to learn about investing. In this episode, Solomon covers the basics of investing and transitioning from just saving to launching your investment journey. Plus, he shares practical tips on budgeting for investing. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Next page Next › Last page Last » Subscribe to Financially Free Ducks The best way to listen is by subscribing in your podcast app of choice. We're listed in Apple Podcasts and Spotify. You can also stream or download each episode right here on our website by using the built-in player. However, we recommend getting a podcast app and using one of the buttons below to subscribe. Apple Podcasts Google Podcasts Spotify RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.