Planning for Student Loans | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Back to Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Menu Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Highlighted Subsections Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Highlighted Subsections Budgeting Obtaining Scholarships Planning for Student Loans Credit Management Saving and Investing Post-Grad Life Breadcrumb Home Financial Wellness Planning for Student Loans If you have student loan debt, your goal should be to pay off your debt as soon as possible. We understand that this process can be both challenging and difficult to navigate. We can help you develop a plan to address your student loan debt and direct you to resources that provide in depth assistance with managing student loan debt. When it comes to understanding the aid you have received through FAFSA, studentaid.gov will be your BFF. Tips on Managing Student Loan Debt Know your balance at all times (out of sight, out of mind does not mean the debt goes away). Formulate a plan for repayment before you graduate. Contact your student loan servicer before you graduate. Choose the plan that best fits your financial situation upon graduation. Work with your service to make any necessary adjustments due to life situations. Our peer financial coaches can help you to get started on your plan and ensure that you understand and access the resources that make navigating student loan debt a breeze. Here are a few category resources that address frequently asked questions: Types of aid Types of loans available Loan repayment options RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.