Tools and Resources | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Back to Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Menu Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Highlighted Subsections Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Highlighted Subsections Budgeting Obtaining Scholarships Planning for Student Loans Credit Management Saving and Investing Post-Grad Life Breadcrumb Home Financial Wellness Tools and Resources Tools and Resources Expanding your financial knowledge can seem daunting and tedious. But the good news is that is doesn’t have to be. We offer tools and resources to help you learn about spending, saving, investing, borrowing, and loan repayment. Budgeting Learn More Obtaining Scholarships Learn More Student Loans Learn More Credit Management Learn More Saving and Investing Learn More Preparing for Post-Grad Life Learn More Computing Security Guidelines Help protect yourself from identity theft and fraud by following these cybersecurity recommendations from UO Information Services. Learn About Home Computing Security Subscribe to the Financial Wellness Center Newsletter Subscribe to receive updates on upcoming events, resources, and more. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Financially Free Ducks Podcast We are pleased to present Financially Free Ducks, a podcast for the University of Oregon community. Each episode is geared towards redefining what a conversation around personal finance can be. Our mission is to empower UO students, faculty, staff, and others to gain confidence and knowledge through shared stories and experiences. We are helping the Duck community move closer to having the awareness to make smart financial decisions during and after college. Listen to the Podcast RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.