Home Flight Scholarship | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Home Flight Scholarship The University of Oregon Home Flight Scholarship covers full tuition and fees for undergraduate Oregon residents who are enrolled citizens of a federally recognized tribe. This scholarship is a part of the larger Home Flight Scholars Program which recognizes the cultural and academic challenges experienced by American Indian/Alaska Native students, enhances mentorship opportunities and develops a culture-rich program for students to help them launch successful academic careers. Award Information Recipients of the Home Flight Scholarship are eligible to have their tuition and fees covered through a combination of federal grants, state grants, and university grants and scholarships for their undergraduate study. Expenses for housing, food, books, etc., are not covered. Eligibility Criteria Students must meet the following criteria to apply: Be a full time undergraduate UO student working toward their first bachelor's degree Be an Oregon Resident for tuition purposes Be an enrolled citizen of one of the 574 federally recognized Tribes Have a FAFSA or ORSAA on file for the application year (regardless of financial need) Submit a Home Flight Scholarship Application How to Apply Home Flight Scholarship Application Current UO students may log in to the application with their DuckID. You must apply no later than the last day of the term to be considered for an award that term. Incoming UO students: You must first apply for Admission to the University of Oregon. Within days of applying for admission, you can find your UO Student ID number in your Status Portal. You'll need this number to create an account to apply for UO Scholarships. You may then follow the link above to apply for the Home Flight Scholarship. Maintain Eligibility Home Flight Scholars do not need to reapply each year. Follow these steps to maintain eligibility: Submit a FAFSA or ORSAA for each school year and satisfy any outstanding Financial Aid requirements Maintain Satisfactory Academic Progress Register for full-time enrollment (12 or more UO credits) each term by the Financial Aid Census date (the last day to add a class). Complete terms and conditions can be found in this document . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.