Logan Scholarship Program | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Logan Scholarship Program Established by the late Jane and Roscoe "Rock" Logan, the Logan Scholarship program was established to benefit financially needy students seeking a degree in education with the intention to teach in public schools. The scholarship will provide funding to nearly 100 undergraduate and 10 graduate students attending the University of Oregon each year. Undergraduate Student Awards The Logan Scholarship will provide support to incoming first-year students majoring in pre-education. Each undergraduate scholarship will provide $6,000 annually (annual award is split evenly over fall, winter & spring terms). Application Procedures Incoming First-Year Students Apply for admission to the University of Oregon by January 15 . Provide all required admission application materials to the Office of Admission by February 15 . Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the federal processor no later than March 1. List the UO as one of your choices. The school code is 003223. Note: Dreamer students including students who have Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status or Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as well as other undocumented students who are ineligible to submit a FAFSA may submit an Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA), which is an alternative to the FAFSA. File the ORSAA by March 1. Scholarship Renewal Logan Scholarships are renewed annually for up to 12 terms of undergraduate study over five years (excluding summer terms). If you graduate prior to using all of the terms of the scholarship, any remaining terms not used will be forfeited. For renewal, recipients must: Be enrolled in and complete a minimum of 12 UO credits per term. Maintain a 3.00 UO grade point average. Complete Terms & Conditions can be found here . Graduate Student Awards The Logan Graduate Mentor Award will support graduate students pursuing the UOTeach licensure program or special education at the University of Oregon. The awards will provide $10,000 to students selected to serve as mentors to undergraduate students in the College of Education. Application Procedures Graduate Students Logan Scholarship applicants will need to complete the general College of Education Scholarship application found on the College of Education scholarship website . Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to the federal processor no later than March 1 . List the UO as one of your choices. The school code is 003223. Note: Dreamer students including students who have Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) status or Temporary Protected Status (TPS) as well as other undocumented students who are ineligible to submit a FAFSA may submit an Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA), which is an alternative to the FAFSA. File the ORSAA by March 1 . Scholarship Renewal Logan Graduate Mentors may receive the award for one year only. In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.