Higher Education Relief Funds (HEERF) | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Higher Education Relief Funds (HEERF) The UO has received funds under three federal stimulus programs: The Federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act known as HEERF I. The Federal Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act (CRRSAA) known as HEERF II. The American Rescue Plan Act (ARP) Act known as HEERF III. November Update: A limited number of $1,000 grants were awarded to enrolled seniors with the greatest need and  a significant outstanding balance as of November 1, 2022. All HEERF funding has now been exhausted and no future disbursements will be made. COVID-19 Isolation Fund (No longer available as funds have been exhausted) Students that have tested positive for COVID-19 and are experiencing financial hardship may be eligible to apply for HEERF Funds to assist with the cost of a required period of self-isolation. Impacted students can apply for and receive up to $700 for documented hotel and food costs incurred while in a standard self-isolation period of time. Applications for funding will be considered on a funds-available basis. Documentation of expenses is required. 2021–22 Academic Year Domestic Students Eligibility: Undergraduate, graduate, and law students who complete a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or an Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA) Currently enrolled at the UO. Students identified as having exceptional need based on their FAFSA or ORSAA information. Eligible expenses that are a part of a student's cost of attendance or emergency costs such as tuition, food, housing, health care, or child care. There is no application process. Award $3,000* grants (divided over the academic year) to students with exceptional financial need. Award $2,000* grants (divided over the academic year) to students with less financial need. *Amounts were increased to $3,500 and $2,333 for students enrolled winter term. International Students Eligibility: Continuing undergraduate, graduate, and law students who have been in their program at least one year. New students are not eligible. Currently enrolled at the UO. Students identified as having exceptional need as determined by International Student and Scholar Services. Eligible expenses that are a part of a student's cost of attendance or emergency costs such as tuition, food, housing, health care, or child care. Eligible students may apply online . Award amounts will be up to $3,000 in grants (divided over the academic year). All Students The UO will also have funding available to assist students with emergency grants. Students may apply for the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) - Emergency Grant 2021-22 . Eligibility: Currently enrolled at the UO. Students who have not already received HEERF Grant funds in 2021-22 based upon need from FAFSA or ORSAA information. Students who have not already received HEERF Grant funds in 2021-22 based upon completing the HEERF application for international students. Students with current documented expenses incurred during the 2021-22 academic year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Funds will be awarded until exhausted. 2021 Spring Term Eligibility: Undergraduate, graduate, and law students who completed a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Currently enrolled at the UO. Students identified as having exceptional need based on their FAFSA information. Eligible expenses that are a part of a student's cost of attendance or emergency costs such as tuition, food, housing, health care, or child care. There is no application process and recipients received $900 for spring term 2021. Recipients were notified by email when awards were made. Students living on campus, with need based on their FAFSA information, who applied for triple rooms but were required to live in a double room due to social distancing requirements, received $587 to assist with the difference in cost. In This Section Grants Federal Emergency CARES Act and CRRSAA Grants (HEERF) Higher Education Relief Funds (HEERF) TEACH Grant Work-Study Loans Direct Loan Subsidized Direct Loan Unsubsidized Graduate PLUS Loan Parent PLUS Loan Loan Repayment Alternative Student Loans Summer Aid Study Abroad RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.