Cost of Attendance 2023-24 | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Cost of Attendance 2023-24 The cost of attendance reflects the amount of money a typical student is projected to need for school-related expenses during the academic year based on residency and degree program. Below is the cost of attendance for new incoming undergraduates. Continuing undergraduates can view tuition and fees by cohort on the UO Tuition website . Cost of attendance is also available for graduate students and law students. 2023–24 Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Residents Nonresidents Tuition and fees Based on typical enrollment for new incoming undergraduates of 15 credits for each of three terms, totaling 45 credits per year. $15,669 $43,302 Living Expenses (On-Campus Housing and Food) Based on the average cost of a common type of room and middle meal plan . There is a live-on campus requirement for incoming first-year undergraduate students. $15,840 $15,840 UO Costs Total $31,509 $59,142 Other Estimated Costs Books, Course Materials, Supplies, and Equipment $1,320 $1,320 Miscellaneous Personal expenses $2,460 $2,460 Transportation $432 $1,380 The total estimated cost of attendance, including UO costs and other estimated costs, is $35,721 for residents and $64,302 for nonresidents. Entering Students Students beginning their first term at the University of Oregon should add the following: Matriculation Fee $510 $510 Off-Campus Housing Off-campus housing is estimated to cost $12,378 (monthly costs: housing $956; food $420). Fees The tuition and fees figure above includes mandatory fees all students must pay. Visit UO Mandatory Fees for more information. The cost of attendance does not include course fees nor does it include the one-time matriculation fee. Read answers to frequently asked questions about the matriculation fee. What's Included The cost of attendance includes the following estimated costs: Tuition and fees Books, course materials, supplies, and equipment Living expenses (housing and food) Transportation Miscellaneous personal expenses Requests for additional school-related expenses , such as: childcare, purchasing a computer, sole occupancy for undergraduates, study abroad expenses, disability related expenses, and more are reviewed on a case-by-case basis. The University of Oregon may also recognize certain expenses related to the cost of obtaining a license, certification, or first professional credential if required to enter your profession. The costs must be incurred while the student is still enrolled at the UO, even if the exam itself is taken after the period of enrollment. An example might include expenses related to taking the Law Bar Exam . Some costs, such as personal expenses and living expenses for students that live off campus, are difficult to project and vary from student to student. We recommend you create a budget to estimate your costs more precisely. In This Section Honors College Cost of Attendance Graduate Cost of Attendance Law Cost of Attendance RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.