Cost of Attendance | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Undergraduate students will pay the same fixed tuition rate for up to five years. Oregon Guarantee 2024-25 Estimated Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Oregon Resident Nonresident Tables go here. * Does not include the one-time matriculation fee of $526 for students beginning their first term at the UO. Read answers to frequently asked questions about the matriculation fee. ** Based on the average cost of a common type of room and standard meal plan. There is a live-on campus requirement for incoming first-year undergraduate students. Off-campus housing is estimated to cost $12,774 (monthly costs: housing $986; food $433). 2023-24 Undergraduate Cost of Attendance 2024-25 Estimated Undergraduate Cost of Attendance Resident Costs Tuition and Fees * $16,137 Living Expenses (On-Campus Housing and Food) ** $16,611 UO Costs Total $32,748 Books, Course Materials, Supplies, and Equipment $1,362 Miscellaneous Personal Expenses $2,538 Transportation $444 Total Cost $37,092 Nonresident Costs Tuition and Fees * $44,598 Living Expenses (On-Campus Housing and Food) ** $16,611 UO Costs Total $61,209 Books, Course Materials, Supplies, and Equipment $1,362 Miscellaneous Personal Expenses $2,538 Transportation $1,422 Total Cost $66,531 Honors College Costs Graduate Student Costs Law Student Costs The undergraduate cost of attendance includes mandatory fees all students must pay. It is based on typical enrollment for new incoming undergraduates of 15 credits for each of three terms, totaling 45 credits per year. Visit UO Tuition and Fees for more information. Requests for additional school-related expenses , such as childcare, purchasing a computer, or sole occupancy, are reviewed case-by-case. Affordability and Value $268M Total financial aid paid to UO students each year 82% of university of oregon fIRST-YEAR STUDENTS Receive financial aid 1 OF 2 Pacific northwest institutions in the prestigious association of american universities #1 public university in oregon for graduation rates Why UO Estimate Your Aid The Net Price Calculator is a guide to assist in early financial planning for college. This calculator will provide a preliminary estimate of federal, state, and institutional aid eligibility. Net Price Calculator Oregon Residency Scholarships Financial Aid Estimate Your Costs The estimated undergraduate cost of attendance above reflects the amount of money a typical undergraduate student is projected to need for school-related expenses during the academic year based on residency and degree program. Some costs, such as personal expenses for students who live off campus are difficult to project and vary from student to student. We recommend you create a budget to estimate your costs more precisely. Create a Budget Work on Campus Strengthen your résumé, meet your academic goals, and help fund your education through a work-study program or part-time employment. Jobs on campus are convenient, flexible, and are a great way to meet new people. Plus, many positions exist that relate to your major, interests, and skills. Student Employment Financial Wellness Center The Financial Wellness Center will help you gain the confidence and knowledge you need to make smart financial decisions during and after college. It will help you understand budgeting, saving and investing, and credit management while helping you find scholarships and student loans. It will also help you become financially prepared before you take your next steps off campus. Financial Wellness Center RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.