Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students At the University of Oregon, the term “ Dreamers ” refers to Undocumented, DACA-mented, Tuition Equity, and students of mixed status families. ORSAA Since DACA and undocumented students are ineligible to submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), we recommend they submit the Oregon Student Aid Application (ORSAA ) . By submitting the ORSAA, DACA and undocumented Oregon residents may be eligible for state grant funding and can demonstrate financial need for scholarships like the Diversity Excellence Scholarship and other departmental scholarships. DACA and undocumented students that are not Oregon residents can still submit the ORSAA to demonstrate financial need for scholarships that require it, such as the Diversity Excellence Scholarship and the Opportunity Through Excellence: Fund the Dream Scholarship, but will be ineligible for state grant funding. Scholarships DACA and undocumented incoming freshmen are automatically considered for the following institutional scholarships, based on their admission materials: Summit Scholarship Apex Scholarship General University Scholarship Students can also apply for the following institutional scholarships: Diversity Excellence Scholarship Stamps Scholarship Presidential Scholarship General University Scholarship (transfer and current UO students) Opportunity through Excellence: Fund the Dream Scholarship Application for 2025-2026 will open Winter 2025 This is a one year award that ranges from $5,000 - $9,000. The scholarship is open to both undergraduate and graduate students . In order to be eligible, students must be: Currently enrolled at UO, or apply for admission as an Incoming Graduate, Law or Transfer student for Fall 2025 (incoming freshmen are not eligible to apply) A first generation college student Able to show financial need Ineligible for federal financial aid To apply Transfer students and incoming Graduate & Law students who are not already attending UO must apply for Admission no later than March 15, 2025 . Log in to the UO Scholarship Dashboard and complete the "General Application" Then click on "Other Recommended Opportunities" and select "Opportunity Through Excellence Scholarship" Scholarship application deadline is April 1, 2025. Opportunity Through Excellence Scholarship There are also several scholarship opportunities available through the OSAC Scholarship Application . Tuition Equity DACA and undocumented Oregon residents can be exempt from paying nonresident tuition and fees by completing and submitting the Tuition Equity Affidavit to the Office of Admissions. Nonresidents of Oregon are ineligible for Tuition Equity and are subject to nonresident tuition and fees. Mixed-Status Families Students that are U.S. citizens or eligible non-citizens and whose parents do not have a social security number are still eligible to submit the FAFSA. When you encounter the FAFSA question asking for your parent’s Social Security Number (SSN), enter all zeroes (e.g. 000000000). A student whose parent cannot obtain a Parent PLUS Loan due to not having a Social Security Number is allowed to borrow additional unsubsidized Stafford loan amounts. Please contact the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships for instructions on how to proceed. In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.