Post-Grad Life | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Back to Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Menu Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Financial Wellness Highlighted Subsections Workshops and Events Tools and Resources Appointments and Scheduling About Us Schedule a Coaching Session Highlighted Subsections Budgeting Obtaining Scholarships Planning for Student Loans Credit Management Saving and Investing Post-Grad Life Breadcrumb Home Financial Wellness Post-Grad Life Being a Duck is fun, and we all know time flies when you are having fun! Before you know it, it will be your senior year and graduation will be quickly approaching. With the excitement of graduation and the huge accomplishment that it is, it also means you will be wondering what comes next. Some will have direction while others will feel stuck and stressed thinking about what is next. We are here to tell you that you do not have to have it all figured out. Transition from College to Career The transition from college to a career takes time and does not have to be an overwhelming or stressful process. One area that can cause the most intimidation during this transition is finances. We are here to share a few tips and resources to help you financially as you transition from college to a career. We will make sure to take care of you and prepare you as you take flight because once a Duck, always a Duck. The Job Hunt It is important to understand there are many things that factor into a job, beyond the work itself. As you embark on the “job hunt” it is important to consider the “package” that you are looking for. Take a moment and think about what you value—the culture of a company, the location, salary, hours, travel requirements, benefits, size of the company, the people, the work itself? Do you want a job that is remote, hybrid, or fully out of an office? Do you want a structured schedule or one that fluctuates? These are all things to consider as you transition from college to a career. Where to Find Jobs Handshake LinkedIn Indeed Career pages on websites of companies you want to work for Important Tips While you will most likely be starting in an entry-level position, it is never too early to think about your future and the goals you have for your career. Do you want to be in a role with a company where you have opportunities for growth? If so, a great question to ask during the interview process is if opportunities for growth are available. Connections, connections, connections—we hear this all the time, but the power of connections can open doors that otherwise might not be there. Building relationships with peers, professors, staff, alumni, and employees at companies can lead to incredible opportunities. It is never too early to start networking and you never know when a connection you made will come full circle. Job Search Resources University Career Center : Learn about career coaching, get help creating resumes and cover letters, and connect with employers. UO Alumni Association : Ducks love helping Ducks. Salary Negotiation It is important to know what the industry average salary is for the type of position you are looking to land. It is also important to consider the role cost of living can play into your salary. The cost of living is going to be a lot more expensive in Los Angeles, California, than it is in Lincoln, Nebraska. The internet is a great resource to help you navigate both the industry average compensation and cost of living expenses depending on the city you live in. Knowing the cost of living of the city you work in can help you negotiate a salary that you need to support your lifestyle. You don’t have to accept the first offer. It is completely okay to ask for 24-48 hours to have time to consider the offer, while making sure they know you are still interested. Websites to help find the average compensation for different jobs: Salary Calculator Salary.com Glassdoor Indeed PayScale Cost of living calculators: Bankrate.com Nerdwallet Benefits and Insurance Salary isn’t everything. In fact, you might consider taking a job that has a smaller salary and an excellent employee benefits package, and end up with a higher income at the end of the day. Your total compensation package is made up of your salary, benefits, and insurance. There are many benefits to consider when looking at your total compensation package. Below is a list of common benefits/insurance to look for, but don’t forget that companies can have more that are unique to them. Health insurance Paid time off (PTO) Retirement Life insurance Other benefits RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.