Next Steps | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Next Steps Financial Aid Next Steps Financial aid offers for newly admitted students will be available on DuckWeb for eligible students beginning at the end of March.* Continuing students will receive their financial aid offers on DuckWeb at the end of spring term. Follow these steps to ensure your financial aid is set up prior to the school year. 1) Review Your Offer You will receive an email once your financial aid offer is ready to view on DuckWeb. Your financial aid offer will outline the types and amounts of financial aid for which you are eligible during the academic year. Review Your Offer 2) Accept Your Aid We assume you want to accept all grants and scholarships so they are "accepted" by default. Work-study and loans are offered as "pending" and require you to accept them. Accept your aid and apply for loans (if applicable) by September 1 (August 1 for Law students) Accept Your Aid 3) Complete Your Requirements Review your outstanding requirement(s) on DuckWeb . Your financial aid cannot be released until you have satisfied all outstanding requirements. Complete your requirements within 30 days of notification Complete Your Requirements 4) Report Additional Resources As a recipient of financial aid, you are required to report all educational resources, like outside scholarships, to the UO. Report Additional Resources 5) Create a Financial Aid Budget Make a plan to pay your direct charges (tuition and fees along with on-campus housing) and your estimated other expenses. Budget 6) Meet with a Financial Aid Counselor Have questions about understanding your aid types and how to pay for school? Drop-in Advising *FAFSA Update: While the 2024–25 FAFSA has been available since early January, no FAFSAs have been processed by the U.S. Department of Education or sent to schools yet (including the University of Oregon). This may impact the typical time frame for financial aid offers, as the UO generally receives FAFSA data much sooner than this. Once a student’s FAFSA data is received by the UO, the student will receive a confirmation email that will provide an update on the expected time frame for financial aid offers. Additional Resources Watch this YouTube playlist to learn more about your financial aid offer, or use one of these buttons to find more resources as you make your college decision. Financial Aid FAQ Contact Us Financial Aid Checklist Oregon Guarantee Residency Become a Duck UO Housing IntroDUCKtion RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.