IB Diploma Scholarships | Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home IB Diploma Scholarships Starting with fall 2021, in recognition of students’ successful completion of the rigorous International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma, the University of Oregon offers the IB Diploma Scholarship Program. Award Information Scholarship dollar amounts are based on the total score received on IB exams and residency. IB Score range Resident amount Nonresident amount Scholarship Name 33+ $3,000/year $6,000/year IB Exemplar Scholarship 28-32 $2,000/year $4,000/year IB Scholar Scholarship 24-27 $1,000/year $2,000/year IB Milestone Scholarship IB Diploma Scholarships may be combined with other UO scholarships, with the exception of the Stamps Scholarship. IB Diploma Scholarships help the UO to meet the PathwayOregon commitment. You must enroll at the UO in the fall term of your first year and you must enroll in 12 University of Oregon credits each term to receive this award. One-third of your yearly scholarship amount will be disbursed to your Student Billing Account each term in which you are enrolled full time. Selection Criteria Incoming first-year students (starting fall 2021) who met all regular admission deadlines may qualify for the IB Diploma Scholarship Program by: Receiving an IB Diploma and providing official exam scores to the UO Office of Admissions Having a high school GPA of at least 3.40 How to Apply Apply for admission by January 15 Submit all required admission application materials to the Office of Admissions by February 15 After graduation, submit a copy of your IB Diploma to the Office of Admissions by September 1 . Scholarship Renewal IB Diploma Scholarships are renewable for up to 12 academic terms (excluding summer) within a five-year period, or 15 academic terms within a six-year period for students seeking a BLA, BIARC, or BARCH degree. If you graduate prior to using all of the terms of the scholarship you were offered, any remaining terms not used will be forfeited. Renewal awards require a minimum 3.00 cumulative UO GPA and completion of 12 UO credits per term/36 UO credits per year. Complete scholarship terms and conditions . In This Section First-Year Students Stamps Presidential Diversity Excellence Summit Apex IB Diploma Scholarships General University Staton National Merit PathwayOregon Logan UO Excellence Scholarship Home Flight Continuing and Transfer Diversity Excellence General University Home Flight Graduate and Law General University Logan UO Scholarship Applications Find Other Scholarships Scholarship Application Tips Scholarships FAQ Financial Aid Information for Dreamer Students Scholarship Bulletin Board Scholarship Workshops RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.