| Financial Aid & Scholarships Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Financial Aid & Scholarships Menu Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Financial Aid & Scholarships Main navigation Cost of Attendance Apply for Aid Scholarships Aid Types Checklist FAQ Events Contact Request Info About the UO Breadcrumb Home Scholarship Bulletin Board This bulletin board lists scholarship opportunities from organizations outside of the UO. Click on the filters on the right to limit which scholarships are displayed. We encourage you to apply for any scholarship you are eligible for—even small amounts can add up to make a big difference. The third parties offering scholarships listed here are not part of the UO and are not vetted or otherwise endorsed by UO. The UO has no jurisdiction or control over the terms of the scholarships, or how, when or to whom they are awarded. UO does not warrant, guarantee or otherwise indemnify any of the third parties’ actions. This list is provided merely to show a range of possible options. If you have a scholarship opportunity you would like posted on this page, please submit your request to financialaid@uoregon.edu . Striving Solo Parent Scholarship Daniel R. Bacalis, P.C. has is offering a scholarship of $1,000 each semester to a single parent who is returning to school to pursue a college degree. We hope that the Striving Solo Parent Scholarship allows single parents easier access to higher education. ● Deadline: Sep 16, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 3.00 ● Selection Criteria: You are a permanent resident or citizen of the United States., You will be enrolled in an accredited university or college within the United States for the Fall 2024 semester. ● Website: https://www.dbacalis.com/scholarship Wind Law, LLC Scholarship Wind Law, LLC is excited to announce its annual scholarship for students planning to attend school in the fall of 2024 as either a pre-law undergraduate or a first-year law student. The $1,000 scholarship aims to assist with expenses for students accepted into a school anywhere in the United States. ● Deadline: Feb 15, 2025 ● Major / Area of Study: Law ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 3.00 ● Selection Criteria: Accepted and planning to attend school as a pre-law undergraduate or entering law school in fall 2024, U.S. citizen or authorized to work in the U.S. ● Website: https://www.windinjurylaw.com/scholarship-application/ Road to Recovery Scholarship Road to Recovery Scholarship provides a $2000 award each semester to a college student who has been injured in a motor vehicle accident at some point in their life and is now pursuing a college degree. The Road to Recovery from any injury is not an easy one, which is why we are delighted to assist a hardworking student who understands what it is like to fight back after suffering an injury. ● Deadline: Jan 8, 2025 ● Award: $2000 ● GPA: 3.00 ● Selection Criteria: You are a citizen or a permanent resident of the U.S., You are currently or will be enrolled for the Spring 2025 semester., You are at least 18 years of age as of the application deadline. ● Website: https://www.deliverydriveraccidentattorney.com/scholarship The Law Office of J. Kevin Clark, PC Empowering Families Scholarship Empowering Families Scholarship provides a $1,000 award each semester to an undergraduate student interested in becoming a family law attorney. Family law is unique, as it requires the balance of compassionate legal guidance with the aggressiveness needed to defend your clients through a potentially heartbreaking situation, such as a child custody battle or divorce. ● Deadline: Sep 16, 2024 ● Major / Area of Study: Law ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 3.50 ● Selection Criteria: You are a permanent resident of the United States., You are currently or will be enrolled for the Fall 2024 semester., You are an undergraduate student in a pre-law course of study. ● Grade Level: Undergraduate Students ● Website: https://www.fortworth-civil-attorney.com/scholarship Law Office of Philip R. Nathe Scholarship Through the Law Office of Philip R. Nathe Scholarship, we provide an award of $1,000 to an undergraduate college student each semester. Students who receive this award may use the scholarship funds to address their educational needs, including paying for tuition, room and board, books, supplies, or other expenses. ● Deadline: Jan 6, 2025 ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 3.50 ● Selection Criteria: Are citizens or permanent residents of the United States, Are at least 17 years of age, Are pursuing an undergraduate degree at an accredited college or university within the United States ● Grade Level: Undergraduate Students ● Website: https://www.napervilledui.com/scholarship Crowder Law Firm Scholarship The Crowder Law Firm offers two $1000 scholarships twice a year to students pursuing higher education who strive to achieve excellent academic performance. ● Deadline: Dec 18, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 3.60 ● Selection Criteria: Hold citizenship or permanent residency in the United States, Are 18 years of age or older upon date of application submission, Enrolled (or intending to enroll) at an accredited university or college for the Spring 2025 semester ● Website: https://www.crowdercriminalfirm.com/scholarship Newland & Newland Single Parent Scholarship We aspire to help single parents and their children overcome the challenges preventing them from pursuing higher education by providing the Newland & Newland Single Parent Scholarship. Our team is offering an award worth $1,000 to single parents and children of single parents who are pursuing a career in law. ● Deadline: Dec 16, 2024 ● Major / Area of Study: Law ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 2.00 ● Selection Criteria: Must be a citizen or permanent resident of the United States, Must be enrolled in an accredited college, university, or law school for the Spring 2025 semester ● Website: https://www.newlandlaw.com/newland-and-newland-about-our-firm/scholarship Children of Injured Workers Scholarship The Hoggatt Injury Law Children of Injured Workers Scholarship is for the amount of $1,000, and applications are open to undergraduate and graduate students throughout the U.S. ● Deadline: Dec 9, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 2.50 ● Selection Criteria: Your parent has been affected by a work-related injury, You are a U.S. citizen, You are enrolled (or will be) in an undergraduate or graduate program at an accredited U.S. college or university through at least the Spring 2025 semester ● Grade Level: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students ● Website: https://www.hoggattlaw.com/children-of-injured-workers-scholarship Financial Literacy NOW Scholarship TriMark Legal Funding’s $2,000 Financial Literacy NOW Scholarship is available to undergraduate college students and incoming freshmen enrolled for the 2024-2025 school year at an accredited college or university within the United States. ● Deadline: Sep 15, 2024 ● Award: $2000 ● Selection Criteria: A currently enrolled undergraduate student or incoming freshman pursuing a four-year degree at an accredited college or university within the United States, A US citizen or have legal authorization to reside and study in the US, At least 18 years of age on the date the application is submitted ● Grade Level: Incoming Freshman, Undergraduate Students ● Website: https://tlfllc.com/scholarship GlobalScholarships.com for International Students Global Scholarships’ mission is to make scholarships accessible and transparent, and we would like to take one step closer to our mission by offering an external scholarship for a prospective international student. There are currently very few external scholarships that are specifically for international students, and we want to make scholarships more accessible for international students by offering this annual scholarship. ● Deadline: May 31, 2025 ● Award: $3000 ● Selection Criteria: You must be an international student, that is, you cannot be a citizen or a permanent resident of a country that you will be studying in Fall 2025. ● Grade Level: Graduate Students, Undergraduate Students ● Website: https://globalscholarships.com/globalscholarships-scholarships/ US Catheter Supplies Academic Scholarship US Catheter Supplies Academic Scholarship Program is offering undergraduate and graduate students throughout the United States the chance to obtain financial assistance for their academic pursuits. At US Catheter Supplies, we recognize the hurdles in funding education and are committed to fostering tomorrow’s trailblazers by providing support. ● Deadline: Dec 1, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● Selection Criteria: Write an acrostic poem with a word of your choice to describe why you chose your field of study at your university or college. ● Grade Level: Graduate Students, Undergraduate Students ● Website: https://uscathetersupplies.com/scholarship/ Waggle Human-Pet Bond Scholarship Opportunity We created the Waggle Human-Pet Bond Scholarship to help lower the financial strain on college and university students so they have more money available to care for the four-legged friends that emotionally support them in their school endeavors. ● Deadline: Nov 1, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● Selection Criteria: reside in the United States or Canada, be a pet guardian, be enrolled in a full-time college or university program ● Website: https://www.waggle.org/waggle-scholarship First-Gen Futures Scholarship This scholarship aims to recognize and support exceptional students who are overcoming the barriers of being the first in their families to attend college. ● Deadline: Dec 1, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● Selection Criteria: A first-generation college student (meaning neither of their parents has obtained a four-year college degree), Applicant must be a current U.S. citizen or permanent legal resident ● Grade Level: High School Senior, Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students ● Website: https://www.topnutritioncoaching.com/nutritionists-near-me#scholarship Future Leaders Scholarship This scholarship aims to support the next generation of leaders in their respective industries so they can make an impact. Any undergraduate or graduate student with leadership skills may apply for this scholarship opportunity. ● Deadline: Oct 1, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● Selection Criteria: Applicant must be a current U.S. citizen or permanent legal resident ● Grade Level: Undergraduate Students, Graduate Students ● Website: https://www.jobtest.org/career-coach#scholarship BizInsure Architecture & Engineering Scholarship BizInsure strives to support these students through our scholarship program, which recognises the dedication of university students in architecture and engineering fields. ● Deadline: Dec 22, 2025 ● Major / Area of Study: Engineering, Architecture ● Award: $10000 ● Selection Criteria: Aged 18-year-old or older ● Grade Level: Undergraduate Students ● Website: https://www.bizinsure.com/scholarships/ Harlem Bling Diamond Jewelry Scholarship Program 2024 Two scholarships of $600 each will be awarded to 2 passionate students, with the aim of reducing some of their day-to-day financial obstacles so they can focus on their studies. ● Deadline: Sep 25, 2024 ● Award: $600 ● GPA: 2.50 ● Selection Criteria: Be currently enrolled in a US university or college for the upcoming school year ● Website: https://harlembling.com/harlem-bling-annual-scholarship/ The Maineri Law Firm Higher Education Scholarship Undergraduate students may apply for our scholarship, which may be used to address educational expenses during their freshman, sophomore, or junior year. Our scholarship is available for those who are currently enrolled in an undergraduate program and who plan to pursue graduate degrees in one of the following fields: History Journalism Political science Communications Education Language Literature Psychology Geology Geography Degrees related to the legal field Environmentally-related degrees ● Deadline: Oct 7, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● GPA: 3.00 ● Selection Criteria: Must be a U.S. citizen or a lawful permanent resident of the United States ● Website: https://www.mainerilaw.com/scholarship Rising Stars Scholarship Our scholarship program provides ﬁnancial assistance to students who have been able to signiﬁcantly improve their grade point averages since beginning their college education. Each semester, we award a $1,000 scholarship to a student who can demonstrate that their GPA has increased by at least one point from semester to semester or year to year. By supporting students who have overcome academic and personal struggles, we aim to help them ensure that they can achieve their educational goals.Winners of the Rising Stars Scholarship can use the award to pay tuition or address other costs related to their college education, including housing, books, or supplies. The deadline to apply for the fall 2024 scholarship is September 11, 2024. ● Deadline: Sep 11, 2024 ● Award: $1000 ● Selection Criteria: Have improved your GPA by at least one point at any time while attending college., Citizen or lawful permanent resident of the US. ● Website: https://www.knoxvillecriminaldefenselaw.com/scholarship The 2024 Alpha Accident Lawyers Scholarship The attorneys at Alpha Accident Lawyers proudly support students’ pursuit of higher education, which is why we are pleased to offer the Alpha Accident Lawyers Collegiate Scholarship Program. Each year, one student who has exemplified educational excellence and leadership will be selected to receive our $5,000 award. ● Deadline: Dec 31, 2024 ● Award: $5000 ● GPA: 3.00 ● Selection Criteria: You are a US citizen and reside in the US., You are currently enrolled or accepted to a college or university for the 2024 school year. ● Website: https://alphaaccidentlawyers.com/scholarship/ Moral Responsibility and the Application of Law Scholarship Koffel, Brininger, and Nesbitt Criminal & DUI Law Attorneys intends to make a new scholarship, the Moral Responsibility and the Application of Law Scholarship, available to undergraduate and graduate students beginning in 2024. This scholarship promises $2,500 in financial support to a student whose critical thinking skills and personal dedication put them a step ahead of the rest. ● Deadline: Aug 15, 2024 ● Award: $2500 ● GPA: 3.00 ● Selection Criteria: Applicant must have residency in the United States, Applicant must be enrolled at a college, university, or graduate school, Applicant must author an original video on the scholarship topic provided. ● Website: https://www.koffellaw.com/scholarships/moral-responsibility-and-the-application-of-law-scholarship/ Pagination Page 1 Next page ›› Filter by Major Law (3) Architecture (1) Engineering (1) Filter by Grade Level Undergraduate Students (9) Graduate Students (5) High School Senior (1) Incoming Freshman (1) Filter by Deadline Dec 2025 (1) May 2025 (1) Feb 2025 (1) Jan 2025 (2) Dec 2024 (8) Nov 2024 (1) Oct 2024 (2) Sep 2024 (6) Aug 2024 (2) RESOURCES Consumer Information Forms and Worksheets Financial Wellness Center Net Price Calculator Summer Aid eRAR (Department use only) DEPARTMENTS Continuing and Professional Education Office of Admissions Office of the Registrar Strategic Communications and Marketing Student Orientation Programs University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center Financial Aid & Scholarships 1278 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1278 P: 541-346-3221 F: 541-346-1175 Contact Us Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.