Day-Only Program FAQs | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Back to First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Menu Summer SAIL Summer SAIL Overview Eligibility Program Options Program Options Overview Week One Week Two Week Three High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Year-Round Programs Español Español Overview Descripciones de los programas de verano Descripciones de los programas de verano Overview Semana uno Semana dos Semana tres Scholarships Scholarships Overview Applying for a SAIL General Scholarship Applying for a SAIL Housing Scholarship Resources Resources Overview Pre-College Resources Pre-College Resources Overview Preparing for College Paying for College Picking a Major and Career UO Student Resources UO Student Resources Overview Academic Resources Financial Resources Health & Food Resources Other Resources Donate About Us About Us Overview SAIL Staff SAIL Volunteers Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Overview Pre-College Mentors Summer Counselors Summer RA Summer Night Manager Lead and Junior Lead Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Promoted Sections Summer SAIL Year-Round Programs Español Scholarships Resources Donate About Us Day-Only Program FAQs Complete Checklist Complete Day-Only program registration Complete parent/guardian/emergency contact informed consent waiver Complete Chemistry lab waiver (if registered for the program) Frequently Asked Questions When Are Summer Programs? How Can I Contact SAIL? What Do I Need to Know About Parking & Transportation? When and Where Is Drop Off and Pick Up? What Is a Typical Day with SAIL? Who Are the SAIL Employees? What Are the Student Expectations, Policies, & Behavior Management? What if My Student Takes Medication and/or Supplements? What if My Student Has Allergies? What if My Student Becomes Sick or Injured? Are Visitors Allowed? What if My Student Has Lost Something? How Can I Stay Connnected with SAIL? When Are Summer Programs? Students will attend only one week depending on which program they select: Week 1: See Overnight/Residential FAQs Week 2: Monday, July 22 – Friday, July 26, 2024 Week 3: Monday, July 29 – Friday, August 2, 2024 Back to Top How Can I Contact SAIL? SAIL Office (24 hours) is the first point of contact Phone: 541-346-4668 Email: sailstaff@uoregon.edu SAIL Staff Lara Fernandez, Executive Director Cell: 541-225-8394 Email: laraf@uoregon.edu Maritza Ruiz, Program Manager Phone: 541-346-1784 Email: mruiz@uoregon.edu Daisy Martinez, Outreach Coordinator Phone: 541-346-4684 Email: dmarti14@uoregon.edu Christina Turchetto, Office Coordinator Phone: 541-346-4668 Email: cturchet@uoregon.edu Back to Top What Do I Need to Know About Parking & Transportation? Things to know if traveling to UO campus from outside of the Eugene area: SAIL does NOT provide parking or transportation to and from programs. Please plan to drop off and pick up your student at designated times and locations, or use alternative options such as bike, bus, etc. If arriving by car, drive slowly on the UO campus and follow parking directions. Campus transportation checks parking regularly and will issue tickets. The university has hourly pay-to-park areas located around campus at a rate of $2.00 per hour. Payment can be made at conveniently located kiosks which accept Visa, MasterCard, AMEX, Discover, U.S. bills, and quarters. Payment can also be made with a mobile device through the Parkmobile app/website. Please make sure you have ample time on your meter and park only in marked stalls when dropping off or picking up your student. Access Detailed Campus Hourly Parking Info Back to Top When and Where Is Drop Off and Pick Up? Drop off 8:30 to 9 a.m. and is located at the UO Duck Store, 895 East 13th Avenue in Eugene. SAIL employees will meet your students outside of the Duck Store. Programs start promptly at 9 AM. If you must drop off your student late, please call the SAIL office at 541-346-4668 so we can get them connected with their group. If your student needs to leave early, a Parent/Guardian must arrange it in advance with the SAIL office. Pick-up is at 4 p.m. in front of the UO Duck Store, 895 East 13th Avenue. Back to Top What Is a Typical Day with SAIL? Day programs begin promptly at 9 a.m. and run through 4 p.m. The schedules of each SAIL program may vary daily and include lunch and snacks. Throughout the week, your student can expect to engage in learning sessions, such as: Faculty presentations College and career readiness Personal and cultural immersion Classroom and lab demonstrations and visitations Campus tours Dining hall experiences Games, field trips and special events Back to Top Who Are the SAIL Employees? In addition to our Director and Administrative staff, SAIL prides ourselves on our college student employees. SAIL student employees are positive, diverse, and highly motivated college students, and/or recent SAIL alumni, who bring enthusiasm and a breadth of life experiences to the SAIL programs. College employees play an active part in each student’s life as positive role models. All college employees are selected from a competitive field of applicants and have cleared criminal background checks as well as a youth protection course. All SAIL staff are mandatory reporters. College employees are CPR and First Aid certified and complete a thorough training program covering program philosophy, developmental needs of student participants, risk and behavior management,game and sport facilitation, and emergency procedures. Most importantly, college employees make it their mission to create a fun, safe, inclusive, and memorable experience for every SAIL student! Back to Top What Are the Student Expectations, Policies, & Behavior Management? SAIL is committed to ensuring that YOU, the student, feel safe during your experience at SAIL. The program has developed expectations that will be enforced throughout SAIL programs, which will allow SAIL to provide you with the best experience possible. The University of Oregon affirms and actively promotes the right of all individuals to equal opportunity in education and employment at this institution without regard to race, color, sex, national origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, this includes all protected characteristics from discrimination under Oregon law, ORS 659A.030. inclusive environment and non-discrimination policies. If parents/guardians or youth are uncomfortable with these policies, they may choose to limit their own participation. University Code of Conduct As a university-sponsored program, we (employees) and you (parents/guardians and student participants) are bound by the University CODE OF CONDUCT. Under this code, the University of Oregon may initiate disciplinary action and sanctions imposed against any student found guilty of committing, attempting to commit, or intentionally assisting in the commission of any of the following prohibited forms of conduct: Damage, destruction, theft, or unauthorized use of personal property located on the university campus or property owned or controlled by the University. Illegal use, possession, or furnishing of dangerous or narcotic drugs on university owned or controlled property or at university sponsored or supervised activities. Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages by anyone less than 21 years of age of furnishing of alcoholic beverages to persons less than 21 years, on university owned or controlled property or at university sponsored or supervised activities. Tampering with fire-fighting equipment, turning on a false alarm, or engaging in behavior that constitutes a significant fire hazard. Hanging or climbing on or through windows, roofs, and ledges. Student Expectations Respect privacy, diversity, and opinions that differ from your own No use of electronics, including NO CELL PHONES during programs – unless it is a designated time No swearing and other foul language No bullying (physical, verbal, and aggressive behavior, etc.) No racial or gender discrimination No smoking No Skateboards on campus Help keep our campus clean. Picking up trash and equipment is everyone’s responsibility. Communicate with your SAIL Counselors if need something Follow Dress Code Always be on time and give your full attention to the instructor(s) volunteers – no cell phones during faculty sessions No PDA – use fist bumps, high-fives Always stay with your group and within established boundaries Cell Phone Policy Students are not allowed to use their cell phones during the program. Due to the level of engagement, we foster at SAIL and out of respect for faculty and volunteering their time, we will not allow the distraction of cell phones. Not only can cell phone use be a distraction, but it can also lead to unwarranted cyber-bullying. We respect the fact that this may be a difficult challenge for both parents/guardians and students, however, we believe in the benefits of a no cell phone policy. We would like our SAIL students to focus on building relationships with new peers rather than isolating themselves on electronic devices. If you have an urgent need to get in contact with your student, you may contact our SAIL office phone number, 541-346-4668, and we will get a message to your student and/or have them return your call. Day students will be asked to silence their phones at the start of every day and their phones must be put away until the day program is over. If a staff member continually catches a student on their phone, they will take it for the remainder of the day and give it back at check out. If you have an urgent need to get ahold of your student, you may contact our SAIL office phone number, 541-346-4668, and we will get a message to your student and/or have them return your call. Dress Code Policy Student participant attire adds to the success of our student learning environment. Students need comfortable clothing that is functional for warm days, and cool classrooms. Comfortable walking shoes are important as we walk around the UO campus a great deal. Sandals and flip-flops are not recommended. Programs that include time in labs will require closed-toed shoes. Clothing that is not permitted includes: See-through garments Tops that expose cleavage or torso Shorts/skirts that do not cover undergarments Clothing/accessories that could be considered offensive Degrading or controversial designs Behavior Management Policies The SAIL program is committed to ensuring each student has a positive, safe, and enjoyable experience at SAIL for developing social skills and learning. The misbehavior of one student, or a group of students, should not be allowed to negatively impact the experience of others. The SAIL program staff makes every effort to help students understand clear definitions and expectations of acceptable and unacceptable behavior. We respond to misbehavior and conflicts consistently and appropriately with a zero-tolerance for violence, bullying, and unsafe behaviors. SAIL reserves the right to conduct a room check in the event of wellness, security and/or safety concerns. Depending on the misconduct, parents/guardians will be required to pick up your student immediately. Please refer to the SAIL Behavior/Incident Flowchart for Additional information about behavior management within our program. Examples of behaviors which will result in immediate dismissal include, but are not limited to: Anything that endangers the health and safety of students and/or employees Possession or use of illegal drugs, alcohol, or cigarettes Possession of firearms, weapons, explosives, etc. Intentional destruction of property or theft Leaving established program boundaries or UO property without permission Engaging in physical altercations For life threatening emergenices, SAIL staff calls 911 and then immediately contacts the SAIL admin. Concerning Behavior Disruptive, lying, repeated ignoring of staff request, disrespectful to staff/faculty/other students. FIRST INCIDENT Employee will have a conversation with student and give verbal warning Reiterate expectations and why behavior is not appropriate SECOND INCIDENT Repeat steps of first incident and notify student that next offense may result in being sent home Inform lead staff Complete accident/incident form THIRD INCIDENT Contact admin on duty Family will be contacted and notified if student is being sent home from program Admin on duty will review report with family at pick-up Unsafe Behavior May include but is not limited to not following policies/expectations, bullying, threatening, intentionally hurting onself or others, leaving program areas, purposefully damaging equipment or property, incidents that threaten the safety and livelihood of program participants and staff, theft, and any discrimination or harassment. Behavior may result in immediate dismissal. FIRST INCIDENT Inform admin on duty for additional support Program manager will notify the executive director of behavior Complete incident form Admin on duty will notify family as deemed appropriate. SAIL team will decide if student is able to return the following day. If so, program manager will speak with family and student about expectations. SECOND INCIDENT Immediately repeat first step (including informing executive director) Program manager iwll immediately contact family, and student will be sent home Student will not be able to return to program Back to Top What if My Student Takes Medication and/or Supplements? We encourage students to bring only the medications and/or supplements required to be taken during specified program hours. All medications/supplements must be turned in to our SAIL employees during check-in. Provide written permission to administer the medication, including dosing instructions. All medication/supplements must be in the original container with the student's name, the dose, the expiration date, and the medication name. Over-the-counter medications can be administered under the same conditions. Medication/supplements will be stored safely with SAIL employees. The only exceptions to turning in medications will be inhalers and EpiPens. All others will need to have prior authorization from the SAIL director. Insulin Shots: For medical and safety reasons, SAIL employees will not administer insulin shots or medications requiring similar procedures unless the student is unresponsive. We will work with you and your student’s medical providers to explore other reasonable accommodations. Back to Top What if My Student Has Allergies Please provide SAIL employees with written instructions stating what the allergy is, what level of exposure prompts a reaction, and which symptoms prompt which response, including the plan of action if your student is exposed to the allergen. SAIL employees go over this with you prior to the first day of SAIL. Back to Top What if My Student Becomes Sick or Injured? If your student becomes ill or severely injured at SAIL, a SAIL employee member will make every attempt to contact a parent/guardian or emergency contact. We will take all necessary precautions to ensure your student receives proper medical attention, including hospital transportation via ambulance if necessary. Back to Top Are Visitors Allowed? We do not allow drop-in visitors at SAIL. The only exception is Friday afternoon during specified times when we invite parents/guardians to attend and celebrate with us. We will give you advance notice of such occurrences. If you would like to visit your student during program hours, please plan arrangements with our Executive Director. Back to Top What if My Student Has Lost Something? If you are missing something, please call the SAIL office at 541-346-4668 and see if we have found it. SAIL is not responsible for items which are lost, stolen, or damaged. Please do not bring items that cannot be easily replaced or that you consider to be expensive. Back to Top How Can I Stay Connected with SAIL? Website: sail.uoregon.edu Phone: 541-346-4668 Address: 1585 East 13th Avenue 108 Oregon Hall Eugene, Oregon 97403-5217 Instagram: @uo.sail YouTube: UO SAIL Back to Top Summer SAIL Eligibility Program Options High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Connect with SAIL! sailstaff@uoregon.edu |    Instagram: @uo.sail |   541-346-4668 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.