FYE/Transfer Communities 2 | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About FYE/Transfer Communities 2 First-Year and Transfer Communities Welcome to the University of Oregon! Our Experience Communities are self-paced learning platforms that provide resources, activities, and discussions designed to help you make connections and achieve success in your first-year at the University of Oregon. The platform is similar to Canvas, making it easy to navigate, and content is updated each term. New students are automatically enrolled in the community before the start of their first term. First-Year Experience Community The First-Year Experience Community offers first-year students a place to independently navigate University of Oregon resources while gaining vital college knowledge that supports student success. It has everything from academic and success resources, to well-being tools, to advice from students and faculty, to a place where insightful conversations can occur. Go to First-Year Community Transfer-Year Experience Community The Transfer-Year Experience Community provides information and resources specifically tailored to new transfer students, who sometimes face different challenges while adjusting to UO. Go to Transfer-Year Community Topics Covered Include: Academic Engagement: Library Resources Undergraduate Research Student Support: Student Success Strategies and Resources Student Support Resources Academic Strategies: Academic Integrity Academic Planning Why Join A Community? Besides the vast resource content available to help students with their first-year success plan, the communities also include mentorship. Peer mentors provide students with opportunities to engage with the campus community through planned events, workshops, as well as one-on-one mentoring during the academic year. If you are interested in being matched with a peer, fill out our survey ! We're Here For You Experience Communities are part of First-Year Programs at the UO. If you have questions or would like more information, don't hesitate to reach out! Send Us An Email Chat With Us Give Us A Call UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.