Speak for Yourself! | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Speak for Yourself! Academic Team: Tricia Rodley ( rodley@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Sai Alueta ( saia@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16279: W: 5:00 – 5:50 PM, MCK 240B TA 271 Introduction to Theater Arts – 4 credits CRN: 15199: TR: 2:00 – 3:50 PM, MCK 240A SOC 204 Introduction to Sociology – 4 credits CRN: 14865 (ASYNC)m +LAB CRN: 14873: F: 11:00 – 11:50 AM, PLC 189 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: In this FIG we will explore public speaking and speaking in public – in other words: active ways to share your ideas and find your voice. This FIG pairs SOC 204 and TA 271 to support a focus on communication and embodied expression within cultural contexts. In the seminar, we will use methods that come from theatre, while applying them to various group or classroom dynamics. We will also build presentation skills through formal/fun scenarios. We invite you to stretch outside comfort zones and try different strategies to Speak for Yourself! TA 271 Introduction to Theater Arts- CoreEd or major satisfying course For years, critics have predicted the death of Broadway and the demise of live performance in the face of media and technology. Since at least the time of classical Greece, however, theatre has been one of the most effective means through which a society can debate issues of mutual concern, define or modify key values, and explore the potential of the human experience, and it continues to fulfill that role today. One aspect of this course explores the role of theatre in our culture through consideration of a variety of dramatic texts of the modern theatre. A written text, however, is not a play. Theatre requires an integration of several individual arts including literature, design, music, movement, and acting to create a live performance. None of these works alone; it is the combination of all of them that creates the artwork that is presented to an audience. An understanding of the possible choices to be made by each of these artists and the techniques required to manifest those choices on the stage form a second line of inquiry. By reading and discussing plays, experimenting with aspects of design, observing performances, and writing reviews, each participant can formulate an individual awareness and appreciation of theatre arts in the world today. SOC 204 Introduction to Sociology - CoreEd or major satisfying course Our study of human society and group life begins with an overview of the tools of sociological inquiry, including theory and methodological reasoning, followed by an overview of human socialization and its role in shaping self-identity. Four additional themes are covered: Crime and Social Control; Social Inequalities Worldwide and by Class, Race, and Gender within the U.S.A.; Dynamics of Social Institutions; and finally, the process of Social Change in an ecologically interconnected, global society. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.