FIG Faculty Proposals | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About FIG Faculty Proposals The 2024 FIG proposal deadline is February 9, 2024! A FIG Proposal is submitted by the faculty member(s) who would like to teach the 1-credit FIG Seminar in the fall. FIG Proposal Process The two academic classes must be regularly taught, introductory-level courses that meet general-education requirements. (A Deep Dive FIG may have one 300 level class.) The courses should be from different disciplines, but be linked by a common theme. To propose a FIG: Contact the Assistant Director of the FIG Program, Jackie Etchison at 541-346-1241 or email jle@uoregon.edu Determine the FYE Seminar theme and the two academic courses you would like to link. Obtain the signatures requested on the 2024 FIG Proposal Form WORD or PDF . Written approval by email is also accepted in lieu of a signature with the attached files Attach the syllabus from each of the two academic courses and return the proposal to Jackie Etchison, First-Year Programs, 107 Oregon Hall or by email (preferred) at jle@uoregon.edu FIG Proposal Word Document FIG Proposal PDF Document FIG Program Goals Develop mentor relationships between student and faculty members Make connections between academic classes and potential majors or career paths Cultivate intellectual curiosity Develop a sense of community among students with similar interests and create a sense of belonging Connection of students to vital university resources Compensation for teaching a FYE Seminar Total compensation for teaching a FYE Seminar (UGST 109) course is $2,000 (+OPE*, if taken as pay). Two faculty members can co-teach a FYE Seminar course and share the compensation. For more complete information, see 2023-2024 FIG Program Compensation Policies . *OPE: Other Payroll Expenses. These are expenses that the University (through your department) pays for you such as: PERS contributions, Social Security, Medicare, Workers Compensations, etc. Any health insurance costs are paid by the faculty’s home department. FYE Seminar The FYE Seminar is a 1-credit seminar. The seminar is led by a faculty member, who typically also teaches one of the academic courses in the FIG, with the assistance of an undergraduate FIG Academic Assistant (FA). The faculty member and the FA work collaboratively to help students draw connections between the two lecture courses in the FIG and integrate well into university life. FIG Student Enrollment Eligibility Each FIG is limited to 20 students. The two academic courses will have both FIG and non-FIG students enrolled; only the 1-credit seminar is exclusive to the FIG. (When possible, discussion sections of one or both of the academic courses will have only students from the FIG.) Faculty Binder Materials Use the following link and log onto the site with your DuckID and password to access the FIG Community: Trainings and Curriculum Planning Space Included on this site is a variety of resources to help you design a unique and engaging FYE Seminar. If you have any questions, please contact Jackie Etchison at 541-346-1241 or email jle@uoregon.edu . Back to Top About Work with Us FYE Assistants FYE Faculty FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.