First-Year Programs | University of Oregon Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About First-Year Programs 2 First-Year Programs Embrace the adventure: discover, learn, thrive. First-Year Programs offer curriculum and resources that make incoming students’ transition to the University of Oregon seamless, substantial, and rewarding. Students can choose to be a part of three different experiences to help them engage in their academics, to provide them with support from peer-mentors and faculty members, and to assist them in exploring university resources. First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Seminars First-Year Communities First-Year Interest Groups Explore unique and tailored courses your first fall term with a cohort of other students while getting acclimated to campus both academically and socially. Each FIG limited to 20 students Over 55 FIGs offered each fall Counts towards degree progression Find Your FIG First-Year and Transfer Seminars Engage with our seminar groups to gain academic, social, and personal support during your first months at UO. Week of Welcome First-Year Seminar Transfer Seminar TRIO Seminar Veterans' Seminar Get Connected First-Year Communities An experience community gives you access to a year-long course that is a guide through resources, activities, and discussions designed to help you make connections and achieve success in your first year. First-Year Experience Community Transfer-Year Experience Community Create Your Flock Common Reading Each year, the Common Reading program presents an engaging selection, often a book, that will be the focus of a campus-wide discussion. Enjoy the opportunity to meet authors, have lively discussions with peers, and experience the piece inside and outside of the classroom. View Current Selections SAIL The Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) is an innovative bridge program that serves middle and high school students from underrepresented backgrounds, Our aim is to encourage teens, through early exposure and exploration, to believe they can succeed at higher education. Receive high school credit by participating FREE day and residential programs Plan Your Summer Connect With Us First-Year Programs is committed to helping you succeed and thrive at UO. If you have questions and need more information, don't hesitate to reach out! Send Us An Email Chat With Us Give Us A Call UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.