Summer Program Options | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Back to First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Menu Summer SAIL Summer SAIL Overview Eligibility Program Options Program Options Overview Week One Week Two Week Three High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Year-Round Programs Español Español Overview Descripciones de los programas de verano Descripciones de los programas de verano Overview Semana uno Semana dos Semana tres Scholarships Scholarships Overview Applying for a SAIL General Scholarship Applying for a SAIL Housing Scholarship Resources Resources Overview Pre-College Resources Pre-College Resources Overview Preparing for College Paying for College Picking a Major and Career UO Student Resources UO Student Resources Overview Academic Resources Financial Resources Health & Food Resources Other Resources Donate About Us About Us Overview SAIL Staff SAIL Volunteers Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Overview Pre-College Mentors Summer Counselors Summer RA Summer Night Manager Lead and Junior Lead Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Promoted Sections Summer SAIL Year-Round Programs Español Scholarships Resources Donate About Us Summer Program Options Week One Full/Closed Sunday, July 14, to Friday, July 19 Overnight/Residential Program Business for a Better World Business Have you ever considered how businesses could lead to positive change in the world? Join us for this year's program, business for a Better World, where you'll gain insights into how businesses can address pressing global challenges in areas such as sustainability, social responsibility, and community empowerment. You will leave with a deeper understanding of how businesses can contribute to a more equitable, just world. ¡Bienvenidos! Latinx Studies Learn about culture, individual family histories, and more by cross-examining the importance of diverse Latinx communities in the U.S and Latin America and how this applies to your professional career path. Let's Get Physics-al Physics & Human Physiology Are you thinking about a career related to human health, technology, or even art? Explore STEM, medicine, and biomedical research and visit UO anatomy labs and Rock-Climbing wall with our Physics and Physiology departments. Rock Wall Waiver Required. So Psych-ed You're Here! Psychology Learn the science that seeks to understand humans by examining their behavior, brains, personality, and emotions. You 'll have firsthand access to how psychology researchers look inside the brain, study how humans develop over their lifespan, and seek to explain the complexity of human interactions! Around the World in 5 Days World Cultures & Languages Are you ready to experience the adventure of a lifetime? Join the UO School of Global Studies and Languages for a week-long language learning and cultural immersion program! With our esteemed faculty as your guide, you will explore different cultures and try on different language lenses to peek into worlds you’ve never seen before. Back to Top Week Two Full/Closed Monday, July 22, to Friday, July 26 Weeklong Day-Only Program FULL/CLOSED Addressing Environmental and Social Justice Issues Environmental Studies Join us as we explore the many ways to get involved in addressing environmental issues. Whether you are interested in climate change, sustainable food, green cities, or environmental justice to name just a few, this camp will provide insights into different approaches to make a difference. In addition, you’ll get to nurture your own connections to nature with field trips and campus excursions. FULL/CLOSED The World of Multimedia Journalism & Communication (SOJC) Learn how to increase your creativity with communication and the importance of creating your personal brand through the School of Journalism and Communication (SOJC). Explore the world of Advertising, Journalism, Public Relations, and Media Studies! FULL/CLOSED Feel the Chemistry Chemistry Bad chemistry jokes never get a reaction... but join us as our department walks you through opportunities to engage in hands-on activities in food chemistry, green reactions, photography, sustainable manufacturing and much more! FULL/CLOSED Live, Learn, Love Biology Biology Come multiply your biology skills by dividing your time investigating the many world class research labs on UO campus.  Activities may include, tree identification tour, diving into marine biology, visiting UO's state of the art Knight Campus, and a field trip to The Oregon Institute of Marine Biology, all while using high-tech equipment. FULL/CLOSED Let the Art Do the Talking Art, Architecture & Design Explore your creativity by visiting our Art, Design and Architecture programs. Get hands-on experience by creating a 3D product, dive into Architecture and visit our studios which include ceramics, metal smithing, jewelry creation, and more! FULL/CLOSED Explore the Possibilities! Exploratory Program New program offered this summer! Sign up to explore 5+ different program topics in one week. A glimpse into majors like  Education, Psychology, Computer Science, Geography, Sociology, and more! Back to Top Week Three Full/Closed Monday, July 29, to Friday, August 2 Weeklong Day-Only Program FULL/CLOSED The Write Solution to Successful Essays English & Writing Are you having trouble writing your college and scholarship essays? Workshop your ideas and enhance your work with feedback from UO English faculty which includes published authors! Rising High School Juniors & Seniors only. FULL/CLOSED Science, Creativity, Technology Computer Science From competing with your peers, to programming a robotic car, to creating a computer game, to finding your match using Artificial Intelligence (AI) – explore the world of computer science to expand your creative mind. FULL/CLOSED Education in Today's World Education, Family and Human Services & UO Libraries Education isn’t just teaching. Learn how Communication Disorders and Sciences, Family and Human Services, Education Studies and UO Libraries can create positive change - a more equitable, educated, and healthy tomorrow. Also, learn how writing is a form of communication through time while exploring hidden treasures of the UO. FULL/CLOSED You're the Missing Piece to Our Equation Economics & Math Economists and mathematicians love to bring abstract reasoning to bear on such important topics as how to win at rock, paper, scissors and how to cut a pizza.  Come and share our joy for these subjects via interactive games and activities. FULL/CLOSED Society and Language Sociology & Linguistics Learn about how researchers and students study society and language. Sociology provides analytical and methodological tools to study social life, inequalities, and social change, with an emphasis on race, gender, class, environment, organizations, communities, and health. Linguistics uses analytic and computational tools to characterize language, to investigate how different groups of people use language, and to understand how use changes over time. FULL/CLOSED Explore the Possibilities! Exploratory Program New program offered this summer! Sign up to explore 5+ different program topics in one week. A glimpse into majors like  Education, Psychology, Computer Science, Geography, Sociology, and more! Back to Top Summer SAIL Eligibility Program Options Week One Week Two Week Three High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Connect with SAIL! sailstaff@uoregon.edu |    Instagram: @uo.sail |   541-346-4668 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.