Development Safari | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Development Safari Academic Team: Mokaya Bosire ( mokaya@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Ally Ikehara ( aikehara@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar  - 1 credit CRN: 16249: W: 4:00-4:50pm, STB 251 SWAH 101 First Year Swahili – 4 credits CRN: 15174: MTWRF: 12:00-12:50pm, MCK 157 GLBL 101 Introduction to International Issues – 4 credits CRN: 12346: MW: 10:00-11:20am, LLCS 101, +DIS CRN: 12350: F: 1:00-1:50pm, MCK 473 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Swahili is the fastest growing lingua franca in East, Central & Southern Africa. This FIG takes you on a journey [Swahili: Safari] of contemporary issues affecting Africa through the lens of the Swahili language, Culture & Peoples. Through SWAH 101 & Global Studies, students get to interrogate issues like development, lingering effects of colonialism, climate change and the breath-taking culture of the Swahili Nation [food, music, pop culture]. Students will experience the behind-the-scenes of Africa and answer questions like: What is a day like in Africa? What is the worldview of the Swahili Nation and what do they consider development? Through multi-media texts, guest presentations and other out of class activities, students get to experience Swahili culture and interact with Swahili community on and off-Campus. Towards the end of the program, students get to cook and savor a delicious Swahili dish with native Swahili speakers. Karibuni! SWAH 101 First Year Swahili - Major satisfying course, 5-credits Introduction to Swahili, stressing speaking, reading, writing, and comprehension skills. At the UO, Swahili satisfies the Foreign language requirements and also the African Studies Minor requirements. Swahili is the major language of East Africa (Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania) including parts of Mozambique, Zambia, DRC, Burundi, Rwanda, Somalia, Mauritius and the Comoros. It is also spoken in the East African diaspora – wherever East Africans are domiciled away from the region. Spoken by over 200 million people, Swahili is the most widely spoken African language and increasingly becoming a major world language with at least 100 Colleges and Universities outside of East Africa teaching it! You have come to the right place for global engagement. GLBL 101 Introduction to International Issues - CoreEd or major satisfying course Hunger, intellectual property, global warming, arms trade, water rights, resource depletion, civil war, genocide, biodiversity loss, terrorism, education, global financial inequities, and immigration: These a just a few examples of the sometimes overwhelming list of challenges we face in a highly globalized world. Some are new but most have been with us for thousands of years. What have changed significantly and rapidly are our mobility and our access to information and images. Issues which a few decades ago may have seemed distant and disconnected are now thrust upon us or at least accessible through various media. Among the wide range of problems and issues faced by people throughout the world, who decides which issues get priority and attention? What informs your own sense of compassion and focus? Does our heightened sense of connection move us more quickly to resolution or to greater cynicism? The course is designed to meet the social science group-satisfying general education requirement. As the syllabus demonstrates, GLBL 101 covers a cross-section of issues, perspectives and scholarly modes of analysis by those working in the field of international studies. The course subject matter is broad, covering issues such as hunger, intellectual property, global warming, arms trade, water rights, resource depletion, civil war, genocide, biodiversity loss, terrorism, education, global financial inequities, and immigration. The course is grounded in the social sciences with readings and lecture material largely informed by the fields of human geography, sociology, political science, and social psychology. The course compels students to consider ways in which current international issues are framed by popular media, various stakeholders, and academicians (from the social sciences). Meet Your Instructor and FIG Assistant! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.