About Us | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Back to First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Menu Summer SAIL Summer SAIL Overview Eligibility Program Options Program Options Overview Week One Week Two Week Three High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Year-Round Programs Español Español Overview Descripciones de los programas de verano Descripciones de los programas de verano Overview Semana uno Semana dos Semana tres Scholarships Scholarships Overview Applying for a SAIL General Scholarship Applying for a SAIL Housing Scholarship Resources Resources Overview Pre-College Resources Pre-College Resources Overview Preparing for College Paying for College Picking a Major and Career UO Student Resources UO Student Resources Overview Academic Resources Financial Resources Health & Food Resources Other Resources Donate About Us About Us Overview SAIL Staff SAIL Volunteers Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Overview Pre-College Mentors Summer Counselors Summer RA Summer Night Manager Lead and Junior Lead Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Promoted Sections Summer SAIL Year-Round Programs Español Scholarships Resources Donate About Us About Us About Us The Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) is an innovative bridge program that serves middle and high school students from underrepresented backgrounds, including both low-income and those who would be the first in their families to attend college. Our aim is to encourage teens, through early exposure and exploration, to believe they can succeed at higher education. During the summer, SAIL offers free, week-long day and residential programs on the University of Oregon campus. Students learn from distinguished UO faculty members through fun, interactive and social activities. Our Staff Our Volunteers Employment Our Vision We believe that higher education is a right, not a privilege, and aspire to a world where every student has the tools and support to succeed in higher education, regardless of background or circumstance. Read Our Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers » Our Mission Our goal is to have students attend up to four years of SAIL and to emerge with the belief that applying to college is the natural next step in their lives. We work to give them the tools they will need to go from admission to graduation. Values Centering students Inspiring love of learning Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Accessibility Community Innovation Goals Increase awareness of higher education Ensure student success in college Eliminate barriers and provide resources Expand diversity and cultural awareness Engage statewide community Increase faculty and staff participation Our History SAIL was launched in 2005 by professors in the Department of Economics who wanted to take an active part in increasing the economic diversity of the UO student body. Our efforts have focused mainly on high schools in the Eugene/Springfield area with low socio-economic status and four-year college enrollment rates under 30%. In 2019 we began offering a dormitory experience for teens from elsewhere in Oregon. The SAIL staff strives to make the summer programs an intensive and enjoyable introduction to what college life is like. UO professors volunteer their time to engage the students in the subjects they are passionate about because they believe education can be the key to a better life. Connect with SAIL! sailstaff@uoregon.edu |    Instagram: @uo.sail |   541-346-4668 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.