About First-Year Programs | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About First-Year Programs First-Year Programs strives to promote resources and curriculum that make incoming students’ transition to the University of Oregon seamless, substantial, and rewarding. Our unit offers a variety of First-Year Experiences (FYEs) to meet the needs of each first-year student, all designed to engage students in their academics, provide them with support from peer-mentors and faculty, and assist them in exploring university resources. There are four different FYEs that students can be a part of, explore each of them below! First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups (FIGs) are for students who only want a fall term experience. Each FIG is unique and tailored to explore an exciting academic theme while helping students acclimate to campus both academically and socially. There are seven themes to choose from, and with over 55 FIGs offered each fall, there is something for everyone! Find Your FIG Academic Residential Communities An Academic Residential Community (ARC) is a community of students who live together in the same building and take classes together based around an interest or identity. The ARC curriculum includes a year-long seminar and often incorporates another class that aligns with the interest of the community. Learn About ARCs Common Reading Common Reading creates community across campus. Each year, the Common Reading program presents an engaging selection, often a book, that will be the focus of a campus-wide discussion. Enjoy the opportunity to meet authors, have lively discussions with peers, and experience the piece inside and outside of the classroom. View  Books First-Year Experience Community The FYE Community offers First-Year and Transfer Students a space to navigate the University of Oregon and all its resources while gaining college knowledge. It has everything from academic and self-care resources, to advice from students and faculty, to a place where insightful conversations can occur. Get Engaged Connect With Us If you have questions and need more information, don't hesitate to reach out! Send Us An Email Chat With Us! Give Us A Call About Work with Us FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.