Bella Italia! | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Bella Italia! Academic Team: Harinder Kaur Khalsa ( harinder@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Blue Jones ( ebjo@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 10 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar- 1 Credit CRN: 16236: T: 3:00PM-3:50PM, MCK 157 ITAL 101 First Year Italian – 5 Credits CRN: 12696: MTWR: 1:00PM-1:50PM, MCK 152  GLBL 101 Intro to International Issues- 4 Credits CRN: 12346: MW: 10:00AM-11:20 AM, LLCS 101, +LAB CRN: 12348: F: 10:00AM-10:50AM, ESL 107 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: In this FIG comprised of GLBL 101 and ITAL 101, you will explore new perspectives that will help you become a global citizen. In GLBL 101, you will identify various issues that face the peoples of the World, how they mitigate those issues, and how the members of a global community might work together to address them. In ITAL 101, you will learn how to communicate in a new language and culture. We hope that this FIG will strengthen your ability to look at different aspects of culture, language, society, and politics through a creative and critical lens. You will explore how these factors shape our identities and outline privileges and challenges people may face to help us inform the decisions we make as contributing members of society on a local and global scale. In the UGST component of this FIG you will create a strong community of learners, reflect on your growth as a learner, and have fun cooking a simple Italian meal, interacting with other Italian and Global Studies professors and students. ITAL 101 First Year Italian - CoreEd or major satisfying course Introduction to Italian stressing speaking, reading, writing, and comprehension skills. Sequence GLBL 101 Introduction to International Issues - CoreEd or major satisfying course Hunger, intellectual property, global warming, arms trade, water rights, resource depletion, civil war, genocide, biodiversity loss, terrorism, education, global financial inequities, and immigration: These a just a few examples of the sometimes overwhelming list of challenges we face in a highly globalized world. Some are new but most have been with us for thousands of years. What have changed significantly and rapidly are our mobility and our access to information and images. Issues which a few decades ago may have seemed distant and disconnected are now thrust upon us or at least accessible through various media. Among the wide range of problems and issues faced by people throughout the world, who decides which issues get priority and attention? What informs your own sense of compassion and focus? Does our heightened sense of connection move us more quickly to resolution or to greater cynicism? The course is designed to meet the social science group-satisfying general education requirement. As the syllabus demonstrates, GLBL 101 covers a cross-section of issues, perspectives and scholarly modes of analysis by those working in the field of international studies. The course subject matter is broad, covering issues such as hunger, intellectual property, global warming, arms trade, water rights, resource depletion, civil war, genocide, biodiversity loss, terrorism, education, global financial inequities, and immigration. The course is grounded in the social sciences with readings and lecture material largely informed by the fields of human geography, sociology, political science, and social psychology. The course compels students to consider ways in which current international issues are framed by popular media, various stakeholders, and academicians (from the social sciences) Meet Your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.