SAIL Staff | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Back to First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Menu Summer SAIL Summer SAIL Overview Eligibility Program Options Program Options Overview Week One Week Two Week Three High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Year-Round Programs Español Español Overview Descripciones de los programas de verano Descripciones de los programas de verano Overview Semana uno Semana dos Semana tres Scholarships Scholarships Overview Applying for a SAIL General Scholarship Applying for a SAIL Housing Scholarship Resources Resources Overview Pre-College Resources Pre-College Resources Overview Preparing for College Paying for College Picking a Major and Career UO Student Resources UO Student Resources Overview Academic Resources Financial Resources Health & Food Resources Other Resources Donate About Us About Us Overview SAIL Staff SAIL Volunteers Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Overview Pre-College Mentors Summer Counselors Summer RA Summer Night Manager Lead and Junior Lead Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Promoted Sections Summer SAIL Year-Round Programs Español Scholarships Resources Donate About Us SAIL Staff Lara Fernandez Executive Director for SAIL laraf@uoregon.edu Lara Fernandez joined the SAIL program in May 2011. She has a Master’s degree in Social Work Administration from the University of Nevada and received her Bachelor’s degree in Biology from the University of Vermont. Lara has an eclectic work background in program development and specializes in programs for teenagers. Her related past employment includes: development and management of a shelter for battered women in Las Vegas, Nevada; working with Aspen Achievement Academy, a youth wilderness program designed for interventions with youth who have criminal backgrounds, in Loa, Utah; creating and directing the City Kids to Wilderness Project in Jackson Hole, Wyoming for low-income, inner-city high school students to discover life in the wilderness and years of Conference Management for MP Associates, Boulder, CO. Now with three teenagers of her own, Lara enjoys program development, and assisting teenagers and college students with exploring their academic goals through the SAIL program. Maritza Ruiz Program Manager for SAIL mruiz@uoregon.edu Maritza Ruiz joined the SAIL team in March of 2023. She has a bachelor’s degree in psychology from the University of Oregon. Prior to joining the UO, Maritza worked in the non-profit sector specifically around Youth Programming. For all of her professional career, Maritza has worked in youth programs of all ages ranging from 2.5-year-olds to teen volunteer programs. She also has a huge passion for work around diversity, equity, and inclusion. Maritza was raised in Caldwell, Idaho, and is a first-generation graduate herself. Being a part of the SAIL team at the UO, Maritza hopes to continue to serve underrepresented populations and bring awareness to the barriers that students face when trying to reach their academic goals. During her free time, she enjoys being outdoors and spending time with her partner and their two dogs. Christina Turchetto Administrative Program Assistant for SAIL cturchet@uoregon.edu Christina Turchetto joined SAIL in March of 2019. She earned her bachelor’s degree in Elementary Education from the University of Arizona and is a first-generation college graduate. She and her family relocated to Oregon from Arizona in 2013 and settled on living in Eugene in 2014. In addition to teaching, Christina has experience working in the hospitality industry, real estate, human resources, the University of Arizona Law School, and medical billing. Christina is very excited to be back to working at a university and especially to be working with a pre-college program focused on inspiring first-generation, low income and underrepresented students to pursue higher education. In her free time, she enjoys spending time with her husband and adult children, traveling and working out. About Us SAIL Staff SAIL Volunteers Employment Opportunities Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers Connect with SAIL! sailstaff@uoregon.edu |    Instagram: @uo.sail |   541-346-4668 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.