FIG Frequently Asked Questions | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About FIG Frequently Asked Questions When can I register for a FIG? Advanced FIG Registration is now closed. Advanced Registration took place from Thursday, June 6th starting at 4:00 PM Pacific Daylight Time and ended on Monday, June 24th, at 12:00 PM Pacific Daylight Time. After this date, students will be able to change, add, or drop their FIG during their Academic Advising Session at IntroDUCKtion . Changes to FIG registration will be available after the initial advising appointment throughout September until classes begin. Students who do not enroll in a FIG in June are eligible to enroll after their advising appointment in the summer. Back to Top Will my FIG choice affect my housing? FIGs are not linked to housing and will not have an impact on your residence hall selection. Back to Top How many students take a First-Year Experience? On average, about 1 in 2 eligible first-year students take a First-Year Experience. Back to Top What are Deep Dive FIGs? Deep Dive FIGs give students a distinct academic experience because they create an immersive learning environment. Some of the Deep Dive FIGs include an intermediate course (which may include 300 level) that is smaller than the courses in many of the other FIGs and is intended to encourage students to explore subjects in depth. Other Deep Dive FIGs have projects, unique field trips, performances, and more that allow students to really dive deep into subject matter. Back to Top What is a Cluster FIG? Cluster FIGs consist of only one co-enrolled core education course. A secondary 4-5 credit course is required (you will choose from a list of courses and then enroll yourself in that additional course through Duckweb.) Back to Top What is a Reacting to the Past FIG? Reacting to the Past (RTTP) is an award-winning series of immersive role-playing games that actively engage students in their own learning. Students assume the roles of historical characters and practice critical thinking, primary source analysis, and argument. There are no RTTP FIGs available for fall 2024. Back to Top If I have a declared major, should I take a FIG? Most often, yes! Most majors have a lot of flexibility, so you should choose a FIG that interests you. Some majors have specific tracks to get you started on working toward your degree your first term, but most do not. Every FIG counts toward your degree, no matter which major you chose. Find a FIG that interests you and then sign up for it once FIG Registration opens. During IntroDUCKtion you can talk with your advisor to explore how that FIG fits with your academic plans. More Major specific information below. What FIGs should science students take? Biology, chemistry, environmental science, or human physiology majors should choose a FIG that includes chemistry. Enrollment in Chemistry FIGs takes place at IntroDUCKtion, after your advisor has used your math placement score to help you select the chemistry track that is right for you. Can students who major in music or dance take FIGs? Students in the music degree program should consult with an advisor before requesting a FIG. Dance majors may take any FIG. What FIG should an education pre-major choose? If you would like to enter elementary education, we encourage you to choose a FIG with a science course. For middle or secondary education, find a FIG related to your possible major. Which FIGs do you recommend for journalism and business pre-majors? Any FIG is great for you to take! Your advisor will help you plan for the introductory courses in your major around your FIG selection. What about students seeking a bachelor of architecture degree? If you have already been admitted to the program leading to the B.Arch. degree, talk to your advisor during IntroDUCKtion. There are a handful of FIGs that Architecture majors are eligible for and your advisor will suggest the FIG best suited for you.If you are not an admitted student in the Architecture Program but are interested in exploring architecture as a possible major, contact First-Year Programs about potential FIG options. Back to Top Can I change my mind later about the FIG I’m requesting? Yes. When you meet with your academic advisor you can stay in the FIG in which you’ve been enrolled, choose another, or decide not to be in a FIG. Choosing a FIG during FIG Registration provides a framework that you can build on or revise when you meet your advisor. Back to Top May I request only one of the classes in the FIG? No. Most FIGs are made of two lecture courses and a FYE Seminar course. Students in the FIG learn to think across disciplines by exploring the related themes of the two courses. Back to Top What if I already have AP or College credit for one of the courses in the FIG? The Registrar has a no repeat policy. If you already have credit for one or more courses in the FIG, you will have to take a different FIG.  Common courses we see transfer credit for: History, Political Science, and Psychology. Back to Top What if I can’t attend IntroDUCKtion? If you cannot attend IntroDUCKtion, then a FIG is an excellent choice for you. Reserving your space in a FIG guarantees you a space in the associated courses for next fall. Back to Top What is FIG Runway? A FIG Runway is a year-long first-year experience in which you take a year-long seminar with the same professor and peers. After the fall FIG courses, students enroll in a 1-credit seminar in winter and spring to continue exploring the FIG Runway theme. FIG Faculty also recommend Core-Education courses you can take in winter and spring to further connections to the topic. Back to Top What if I’m a student in the Robert D. Clark Honors College? We recommend Clark Honors College (CHC) students to choose a FIG from the list of FIGs that have been selected to not overlap with CHC core education requirements. You can explore CHC FIG options here (scroll down the webpage until you find the CHC list.) If you don't see a FIG you want on the list, talk to your advisor about you FIG choice. Back to Top Can students in the Undergraduate Support Program enroll in FIGs? You will be automatically enrolled in a FIG that has been designed just for you! Back to Top What if I change my mind about a FIG fall term? FIGs are a package of classes, and when dropping a FIG, all associated courses are dropped. A FIG can be dropped by contacting the FIG Office through our email figs@uoregon.edu . You must send the email from your official uoregon email, and include the following information: Your name Your student ID number The FIG you are dropping An acknowledgement that you understand you will be dropped from the FIG Seminar as well as the associated lecture courses The request will then be sent to the Registrar by the FIG Program. The Registrar will process the drop request as soon as possible. This process is not immediate. Please Note: After week 8, in order to drop, a student must complete a petition. Contact figs@uoregon.edu for instructions on this process. Back to Top First-Year Interest Groups Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.