Under the Feet of Jesus | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Under the Feet of Jesus 2019-2020 Common Reading Book Under the Feet of Jesus by Helena María Viramontes A story of loss and survival, Under the Feet of Jesus is a lyrical, powerful novel about the lives of the children, women, and men who endure a difficult existence and labor under dangerous conditions as migrant workers in California’s fields. Through central characters like the teenager, Estrella, and her mother, Petra, the book explores interrelated topics of farm labor, health care, material resources, and environmental justice. The title of the book refers to birth certificates and other important documents kept in a portable statue of Jesus that moves with the family to each new location along the agricultural production cycle. About the Author In addition to Under the Feet of Jesus , Helena María Viramontes is the author of numerous short stories and the novel, Their Dogs Came With Them. Viramontes has co-edited two collections: Chicana (W)Rites: On Word and Film and Chicana Creativity and Criticism . The Goldwin Smith Professor of English at Cornell University in Ithaca, NY, she is also a recipient of a United States Artist Fellowship among other awards and fellowships. Her writings have been widely anthologized and adopted for academic study such as the critical reader, Rebozos De Palabras. A community organizer and former coordinator of the Los Angeles Latino Writers Association, Viramontes is a frequent lecturer in the U.S. and internationally. Their Dogs Came With Them has recently been adapted into a play. She is finalizing a draft of her third novel. Teaching and Curriculum Guide More Resources UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.