First-Year and Transfer Seminars 2 | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About First-Year and Transfer Seminars 2 First-Year and Transfer Seminars The Path to Success Starts Here. When arriving on campus, new students must adjust to a new environment, structures, and the expectations of college. Our seminar groups, for both First-Year and Transfer students, provide them with the academic, social, and personal support during their first term that will help them find their path at UO. Each seminar meets once before fall classes begin during Week of Welcome. For more info visit: Week of Welcome First-Year Seminar The First-Year Seminar empowers students to participate fully in the opportunities at the University of Oregon and find resources to support a successful educational experience. View Seminar Details Transfer Seminar The Transfer Seminar is designed to support new transfer students as they navigate their new campus and to help eliminate some of the unique challenges transfer students often experience. View Seminar Details TRIO Seminar Looking for support and community as your transition to the University of Oregon? Join a group of new transfer students as we learn about important resources on and off campus, build connections, and start your time at UO smoothly! View Seminar Details Veterans' Seminar Are you a new student to the University of Oregon and a veteran? Consider enrolling in this seminar specifically designed to help you navigate your transition from service to higher education. View Seminar Details UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.