Chemistry of Food and Flavor | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Chemistry of Food and Flavor Academic Team: Tanya Gupta ( tgupta@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Maya Selesnick ( mselesni@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 7 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16240: W: 2:00PM-3:20PM, BEAN 1201 CH 221 General Chemistry 1 – 4 Credits CRN: 11117: MTWRF: 11:00AM-11:50AM, COL 150  CH 227 General Chemistry Lab- 2 Credits CRN: 11135: F: 12:00PM-2:50PM, KLA 109 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Have you wondered about what makes meat soft, tender and juicy? Why are sugars so addictive - whether in a chocolate or other treats that please our sweet taste buds? This FIG will provide you an interesting take on the general chemistry of food and flavors. The concepts covered in the General Chemistry Lecture and the experiments and problems that you will be exposed to in the General Chemistry Lab will be explored further in this FIG.  We will watch videos from chefs, read articles, and work in small collaborative groups for hands on activities.  We will also perform some kitchen experiments involving food preparation and taste tests as an opportunity to apply general chemistry to make informed decisions about food and flavors. CH 221 General Chemistry I - CoreEd or major satisfying course Chemistry is the study of matter and the changes that it undergoes. It is a science that is central to our understanding of the natural world and it serves as a foundation for all other scientific disciplines. The General Chemistry sequence, beginning with CH 221, is designed for science majors and pre-professional students, and provides an introduction to the experimental and theoretical foundations of chemistry. Students will gain factual knowledge about the terminology and language of chemistry as well as an understanding of the underlying reasons why chemical processes occur. They will be expected to interpret, reason and problem solve using fundamental chemical principles. Upon successful completion of this first course in the sequence, students will have an understanding of the basic scientific measurement system, chemical calculations, the components of matter, the use of formulas and equations in relation to chemical calculations, the major classes of chemical reactions, heat changes associated with chemical reactions and atomic structure. Interwoven throughout the sequence will be an emphasis on development of the problem solving skills fundamental for success in future science courses. Courses in the General Chemistry sequence are to be taken in order and students enrolled must have completed at least one year of high school chemistry or the equivalent. Portions of the sequence are somewhat math intensive and for this reason, College Algebra (MATH 111) is a pre-requisite for CH 221. CH 227 General Chemistry Lab - CoreEd or major satisfying course First term of the three-term laboratory sequence: basic laboratory skills, quantitative relationships, qualitative analysis, calorimetry. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.