Scholarships | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Back to First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Menu Summer SAIL Summer SAIL Overview Eligibility Program Options Program Options Overview Week One Week Two Week Three High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Year-Round Programs Español Español Overview Descripciones de los programas de verano Descripciones de los programas de verano Overview Semana uno Semana dos Semana tres Scholarships Scholarships Overview Applying for a SAIL General Scholarship Applying for a SAIL Housing Scholarship Resources Resources Overview Pre-College Resources Pre-College Resources Overview Preparing for College Paying for College Picking a Major and Career UO Student Resources UO Student Resources Overview Academic Resources Financial Resources Health & Food Resources Other Resources Donate About Us About Us Overview SAIL Staff SAIL Volunteers Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Overview Pre-College Mentors Summer Counselors Summer RA Summer Night Manager Lead and Junior Lead Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Promoted Sections Summer SAIL Year-Round Programs Español Scholarships Resources Donate About Us Scholarships Scholarships Application deadlines for all 2024 scholarships have been extended until May 31 due to the delays with FAFSA and Financial Aid Some SAIL participants may be eligible to apply for special scholarship opportunities if they plan to attend the University of Oregon. See the information below for eligibility requirements and how to apply. If you require any accessibility assistance, contact sailstaff@uoregon.edu . SAIL General Scholarship SAIL Housing Scholarship SAIL General Scholarship The SAIL program awards scholarships to high school SAIL students who are pursuing higher education at the University of Oregon. The SAIL scholarship amounts will be based on level of participation in the SAIL program, financial need, and available funding. Scholarships range from $1,000 to $2,000 for a one-time award and will be disbursed at the time of entry into UO. Qualifications & Instructions Apply Now SAIL Housing Scholarship The SAIL program is honored to award a scholarship for UO on-campus housing for one year. This housing scholarship will be for high school SAIL students who are pursuing higher education at the University of Oregon and are Pathway Oregon Scholarship recipient. The SAIL Housing Scholarship amount is based on the average cost of a common room type and Carson limited meal plan. Eligibility for housing award will be based on level of participation in the SAIL program, financial need, and available funding. The SAIL Housing Scholarship will provide $15,000 toward room and meal charges for students beginning fall term who will be living in UO on-campus residence halls. Qualifications & Instructions Apply Now Connect with SAIL! sailstaff@uoregon.edu |    Instagram: @uo.sail |   541-346-4668 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.