How to Join a FIG/FYE | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About How to Join a FIG/FYE Students can change, add, or drop their FIG or FYE during the summer. Changes to FIG/FYE registration are available from July 1st through September until classes begin. See below for more information on making FIG changes. If you’re interested in joining a FIG, we recommend you start looking at the descriptions of each FIG on our Fall 2024 FIGs page. This page will show which FIGs currently have open spaces starting July 1st, and is updated regularly during business hours to reflect changes in availability. Remember, all FIGs count toward your degree no matter which one you choose, so make sure to find a few FIGs that interest you! FIGs are first-come, first-served, and we don’t offer a waiting list, so it’s a good idea to have a few back-up FIG options in mind. We also offer unique First-Yes Experience Seminars, including our Trailblazing First Year Experience , Veterans Seminar , Transfer Students Seminar , and TRIO SSS Seminar! For questions about eligibility or to join an FYE, using the following ways to contact us! Whether you want to learn more about FIGs/FYEs or are ready to add, drop, or change your FIG/FYE, the best way to get immediate support is to reach out to us via our online HelpDesk, open from 9-4 on business days, by clicking the "Chat with Us!" button below, and logging into Microsoft Teams with your UOregon Duck ID and Password! Chat with Us! Add a FIG/FYE "Am I eligible to add a FIG or FYE before meeting with my advisor?" Yes! Students are eligible to add a FIG or FYE throughout the summer, all the way up to the first week of classes! We are happy to work with students of all majors to ensure that any FIG or FYE you join aligns with your personal interests and degree plans. If a FIG includes a class that requires a placement test before students can be enrolled into the class, we will note that requirement on the FIG's page. We highly encourage students to take their placement tests as soon as possible, and to work with advisors if they have questions about their scores and degree planning. "What if I want more information before deciding on a FIG or FYE?" We are happy to talk about what FIGs and FYEs are and go over the different options that are available! Students can chat with us over the online FIG/FYE HelpDesk, where our team of FIG/FYE Assistants can help you browse options, troubleshoot scheduling conflicts, and share about their own experiences in the program! We have a team ready to help you each business day between 9 AM and 4 PM. Click the "Chat with Us" button below and log in with your UOregon Duck ID and password to get connected! Back to Top Changing or Dropping your FIG/FYE "I have not met with my advisor yet and want to change or drop a FIG" Students can add or change a FIG before meeting with an advisor, however it is strongly recommended to wait to meet with an advisor before dropping a FIG . Watch for an email from Advising in Late June or early July to sign up for an academic advising appointment. Below is the most immediate and effective way to contact us. It will require you log-in to Microsoft Teams with your Duck ID. "I have met with my advisor and want to change my FIG/FYE" Students can change their FIGs over the course of the summer, though we strongly recommend that students work with our team to resolve any scheduling concerns or challenges, or to find a different FIG if students want to explore other options . With over 55 FIG options all meeting different degree requirements, we're always happy to help you find a great FIG for you! We want you to have a wonderful first term! "I have met with my advisor and want to drop my FIG/FYE" FIGs are also a complete package of classes, and dropping a FIG will mean you will be dropped from all the classes within the FIG, and we cannot guarantee you will be able to re-add the FIG classes after you drop if the class is otherwise full. Below are the most effective ways to contact us. The "Chat with Us" option is preferred as you can get immediate help during business hours. It will require you log-in to Microsoft Teams with your Duck ID. Are you dropping due to a course conflict? You may be able to take a different discussion section or lab if the FIG conflicts with something you need to take. Reach out to the FIG Office and explain your conflict, there are often solutions! Also, consider if you need the conflicting course THIS TERM. Fall term is your only chance in four years to participate in a FIG, chances are you can take the conflicting course during winter or spring term instead. Are you dropping due to time commitment concerns? All FIGs are fall term only (with the exception of the one FIG Runway Carnegie Global Oregon) and the core education courses are regular UO classes you would be taking anyway. You also receive 1-credit that counts towards your degree for the FYE seminar. FIGs are no more than half of a full-time schedule and are fully integrated into your fall term experience. Consider this: Over 95% of students on average say they would recommend taking a FIG. Students who take FIGs are statistically shown to have higher GPAs and are more likely to graduate on time! “I really enjoyed being in the FIG because I met one of my best friends and it helped me make other friends in two of my courses. It was definitely worth taking as a first term freshman!” - Polina R. from Secrets to Success in STEM "My FIG was an amazing interdisciplinary experience! I learned about connections between sociology and biology I never would have thought to explore on my own. It was helpful to take the courses along with other freshman so that I could get accustomed to academic life at the UO without feeling alone. Both the FA and the faculty were friendly and accommodating, and helped me explore interests I didn't even think I had." - Alex T. from Humans: An Origin Story Back to Top Questions? Get in touch with us. Send Us an Email Chat with Us Give Us a Call First-Year Interest Groups Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.