Inside Architecture: Bricks, Sticks and Poetry | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Inside Architecture: Bricks, Sticks and Poetry Academic Team: Jim Givens ( jgivens@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Jonah Nees ( jnees@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16264: W: 10:00 – 10:50 AM, LA 405A ARCH 201 Introduction to Architecture – 4 credits CRN: 10309: MWF: 9:00 – 9:50 AM, LA 177 ARH 314 History of World Architecture – 4 credits CRN: 10490: TR: 4:00 – 5:20 PM, LA 177, +DIS CRN: 10498: F: 12:00 – 12:50 PM, LA 241 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: This class offers the opportunity to explore the profession of architecture beyond the classroom setting. We will explore the understanding of the built environment through building tours, field drawing, discussion sessions, and visits from local practicing architects to illuminate the various things architects do in their careers. We will also provide an opportunity for students to design one room for a site located on campus. Along the way, we will be extending the ideas introduced in ARCH 201 Introduction to Architecture. By the end of the term, each student will have a hands-on understanding of the challenges of the field of architecture. This FIG is for students who have NOT been admitted in to the Architecture Major. Deep Dive FIG : Please note this FIG contains a 300-level course. This course has been vetted by First Year Programs to ensure first-term students can achieve success. The instructor is aware that FIG students will be in the course. ARCH 201 Introduction to Architecture - CoreEd or major satisfying course Offers a structure of principles for making places for people. Examines places, design procedures, and the use of archtiectural principles in general. ARH 314 History of World Architecture I - CoreEd or major satisfying course This course, which considers the art of building in the ancient world of Egyptians, Greeks and Romans, and in the medieval world from the Early Christian and Byzantine periods through the Romanesque and Gothic eras, fulfills the Arts and Letters Group satisfying requirement. Students will be introduced to the entire ancient and medieval history of Western architecture through the course text and reading packet. The lectures themselves will examine a selected number of periods and monument, and these will be considered in depth. The lectures are organized chronologically beginning with the earliest Egyptian pyramids (c. 2600BC) and ending with the great Gothic cathedrals of the high and later Middle Ages (c.1200-1300 AD). Each focus monument, together with comparative supporting monuments, will be discussed in relation to such essentials of architecture as form, style, structure, materials, construction, function and meaning. The aim of this multi-pronged analysis is to answer the following very basic question: "Why does the building look the way it does?" Analysis of both "focus" and "supporting" monuments will reveal that numerous factors work in concert to give a building or site its distinctive character and shape. The course has no pre-requisites and is designed for majors from all areas. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.