The Emotional Life of Your Brain | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About The Emotional Life of Your Brain 2014-2015: The Emotional Life of Your Brain The Emotional Life of Your Brain by Richard Davidson Website: Clark Honors College discussion forum The Symposium for Mindfulness and Society was created to highlight the research being conducted by UO faculty and graduate students on the neurological basis of mindfulness practices such as meditation, tai chi, and yoga. Meditation has long been associated with a sense of inner calm and physical relaxation. Researchers at the UO are now finding that meditation and mindfulness can lead to improved learning and attention as well as increased self-awareness, compassion, and introspection. This year the symposium is highlighted by two guest speakers: Change Your Brain by Transforming Your Mind: Neuroscientific Studies of Meditation Richard J. Davidson, Ph.D., University of Wisconsin-Madison Date: February 9, 2015 Time: 7 pm [EMU Ballroom] Richard Davidson is a pioneering neuroscientist, founder of the Center for Investigating Healthy Minds at the Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, and named by Time magazine as one of the world’s most influential people. Davidson is best known for his groundbreaking work in studying emotion and the brain. His bestselling book, The Emotional Life of Your Brain , was chosen as this year’s Undergraduate Studies Common Reading: a book given to all first-year students as a way of sparking conversation while introducing them to the UO’s rich community of researchers and scholars. Minding Mindfulness: Findings and Issues in the Scientific Investigation of Contemplative Practice Clifford Saron, Ph.D., University of California-Davis Date: February 9, 2015 Time: 1 pm [Lee Barlow Guistina Ballroom, Ford Alumni Center] Clifford Saron is an Associate Research Scientist at the University of California-Davis and Director of the Shamatha Project — a large-scale collaborative and multimethod longitudinal study of the effects of intensive meditation training. The Saron lab uses qualitative, self-report, behavioral, electrophysiological, and biochemical measures to begin to elucidate the many levels of personal and physiological change that accompany such training. The Davidson lecture is sponsored by the College of Arts and Sciences, the Undergraduate Studies Common Reading Program (with support from the Offices of the President and the Vice President for Student Life), and the Departments of Biology and Psychology. All events are free and open to the public. For sign language interpreting or other disability-related accommodations, please call 541-346-1221 before February 2nd. Davidson’s lecture will be ASL interpreted. For info or questions about the Symposium or the Common Reading, please contact 541-346-1221 or vpugs@uoregon.edu . Symposium Sessions [February 9, 2015 – Lee Barlow Guistina Ballroom, Ford Alumni Center] 1:00 pm Introduction 1:15 pm Clifford Saron, Minding Mindfulness: Findings and Issues in the Scientific Investigation of Contemplative Practice (UC Davis, Director of the Shamatha Project) 2:00 pm Ben Nelson, Parental Interpersonal Mindfulness Associated with Decreased Rates of Postpartum Depression (UO) 2:15 pm Nick Allen, Dispositional Mindfulness as a unique psychological strength: Clinical and neurodevelopment perspectives (UO) 2:45 pm Break 3:30 pm Marjorie Woollacott, Effects of Meditation, Tai Chi and Aerobics on Neural Activity Associated with Executive Attention (UO) 4:00 pm Christina Karns, A Grateful Mind: Relating Gratitude to Facets of Mindfulness (UO) 4:15 pm Frank Diaz, Mindfulness and Musical Processing: Theories, Evidence, and Questions from an Emerging Field (UO) 5:00 pm Reception Mindfulness Showcase [February 10, 2015 – Gumwood Room, EMU] See a f ull description of each showcase event. Schedule: 10:00 a.m. Mindful Yoga with Kathryn Thier (UO) 11:00 a.m. Mindfulness and Emotional Well-Being with Tyan Taubner (UO) Noon Mindfulness Sitting Group with Robin Hertz (UO) 1:00 p.m. Mindfulness-Based  Cognitive Therapy with Heidemarie Laurent (UO) 2:00 p.m. Mindfulness and Higher Education with Lisa Freinkel (UO) 3:00 p.m. UO Mindfulness Research with Cris Niell, Marjorie Woollacott and other UO researchers 4:15 p.m. Mindfulness  and Elementary School with Tom Horn (Edison Elementary School) Media Tuesday, January 27 – Lecture by Michael Posner Monday, February 9 – Lecture by Richard Davidson UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.