Listen. Learn. Act. | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Listen. Learn. Act. UO Common Reading’s theme for 2020-2022 is Listen. Learn. Act. This theme is dedicated to listening to and learning about Blackness and Black experience. The intent is to address historical contexts for racism and biased policies in order to construct more inclusive and viable futures for marginalized people. We look forward to having the opportunity to connect incoming first-year students with the rest of the UO community through conversations, storytelling, and a variety of events throughout the year. We will jump into this experience together by dividing the theme into three segments by term, each focused on a different body of work. The 1619 Project The 1619 Project is an ongoing initiative from The New York Times Magazine that began in August 2019, the 400th anniversary of the beginning of American slavery. It aims to reframe the country’s history by placing the consequences of slavery and the contributions of Black Americans at the very center of our national narrative. It is an interactive project with contributions by the newspaper's writers, including essays on the history of different aspects of contemporary American life which the authors believe have "roots in slavery and its aftermath. "1619" is an audio series hosted by Nikole Hannah-Jones on how slavery has transformed America, connecting past and present through the oldest form of storytelling. This is My America Every week, seventeen-year-old Tracy Beaumont writes letters to Innocence X, asking the organization to help her father, an innocent Black man on death row. After seven years, Tracy is running out of time–her dad has only 267 days left. Then the unthinkable happens. The police arrive in the night, and Tracy’s older brother, Jamal, goes from being a bright, promising track star to a “thug” on the run, accused of killing a white girl. Determined to save her brother, Tracy investigates what really happened between Jamal and Angela down at the Pike. But will Tracy and her family survive the uncovering of the skeletons of their Texas town’s racist history that still haunt the present? Kimberly Johnson's debut novel explores racial injustice against innocent Black men who are criminally sentenced and the families left behind to pick up the pieces. Events and Activities The Common Reading program holds events throughout the academic year that offer an opportunity for the community to get involved. In the upcoming year, we'll be highlighting the voices of our local tribes as we continue to work with "Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge, and the Teachings of Plants." Every year, the Undergraduate Research Symposium showcases several projects related to Common Reading and local groups hold events related to the themes and materials studied in the program. Thank you to our partners Office of the Provost Division of Equity and Inclusion Black Cultural Center Multicultural Center Black Studies Minor UOTeach First-Year Interest Groups UO Libraries Residence Life Black Strategies Group Native American Strategies Group Clark Honors College UO Advancement Teaching Engagement Program Center for the Study of Women in Society Inclusive Pedagogies Research Interest Group Environmental Studies Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art Museum of Natural and Cultural History Office of Sustainability Student Sustainability Center Eugene Public Library Eugene Public Library Foundation Springfield Public Library Undergraduate Education and Student Success Career Center Contact us Email us at commonreading@uoregon.edu Follow us on Twitter @CommonUo See the latest on Instagram @uocommonreading First-Year Programs 5256 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-5256 Office: Oregon Hall, Room 107 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.