Startups from the Ground Up | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Startups from the Ground Up Academic Team: Phil Colbert ( pcolbert@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Josh Morfin-Vazquez ( jmorfinv@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16331: T: 3:00 – 3:50 PM, PETR 107 CS 110 Fluency with Information Technology – 4 credits CRN: 11547: MWF: 2:00 – 2:50 PM, COL 150, +DIS CRN: 11554: 12:00 – 12:50 PM, KLA B026 BA 101Z Introduction to Business – 4 credits CRN: 10658: MW: 10:00 – 11:50 AM, LIL 182 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Would you like to be the next dorm-room entrepreneur like Mark Zuckerburg (Facebook) or Reshma Saujani (Girls Who Code)? Join Startups from the Ground Up to gain practical experience and insight into the world of technical startups and becoming an entrepreneur. CS 110 Fluency with Information Technology - CoreEd or major satisfying course CS 110 is about the digital world, the study of computer-based information systems, and computational thinking. Computational Thinking (CT) is a way of solving problems that draws on concepts fundamental to computing. In the information age, CT is a requisite skill for everyone, not just computer scientists. From logical thought to programming, database concepts to website architecture, information privacy and security to networking and multimedia, CS 110 is designed to help you understand how computational thinking can be used to transform information into knowledge in your field of study. CS 110 helps you develop computing capabilities suited to all careers in the 21st century. Students create websites using a project-based, hands-on approach to web development. Students learn the basic HTML elements, and how to deploy them to produce visually appealing web pages. This part of the course emphasizes on page layout, user interface elements and mechanisms, and responsive web design. CS 110 is the first course in the CIT minor, and serves as a recommended prerequisite for CS 111 BA 101 Introduction to Business - CoreEd or major satisfying course This course is designed to challenge you to learn about private enterprise and to better understand how organizations operate within that environment. The course will help you understand and think carefully about the economic dimensions of your life. You have four roles in the private enterprise system: consumer, employee, owner and citizen. To make informed decisions in each of these roles, you need to understand both the basic principles of the system and its complexity.You will begin building your understanding by studying the kinds of decisions that are made in organizations, the models managers use to help them make the decisions and how those decisions are shaped by the competitive environment. You will be actively involved in making business decisions in a competitive environment and using the underlying models to improve your decisions over time. Your decision-making experience should help you to appreciate each of your economic roles. As a consumer, understanding an organization's marketing decisions should provide insight upon your impact as a consumer; understanding human resource management decisions should help you understand your present and future employment relationships; and understanding entrepreneurship and how stock markets work should help you understand the potential of ownership. Most importantly, building your understanding of how the whole system works should prepare you to meet your duties as a citizen with responsibility in setting the rules that shape business decisions and give definition to society. Building understanding is like building anything else. You need raw materials and you need to engage in an active process that combines the raw materials into something new. In this case, the raw materials are business vocabulary, concepts, and models that are provided in the course. The active process will involve teamwork and in-class participation. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.