Remixing Media, ©ritiquing ©ulture | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Remixing Media, ©ritiquing ©ulture Academic Team: Andre Sirois ( asirois@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Stella Prichard ( spricha6@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant Skylar Debose ( sdebose@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16275: W: 12:00 – 12:50 PM, GSH 131 CINE 230 Remix Cultures – 4 credits CRN: 11382: TR: 10:00 – 11:50 AM, 105 ESL ARTD 250 Print Media Digital Arts – 4 credits CRN: 10581: M: 12:00 – 1:50 PM, 115 LA +LAB CRN: 10583: MW: 10:00 – 11:50 AM, 283M LA Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Remixing Media, ©ritiquing ©ulture explores how the appropriation, parody, and remixing of media texts (images, ads, music, video, etc.) can be a powerful form of cultural critique. Not only will we look at the culture jamming movements of the past and present, but we will apply these concepts and aesthetics to create our own works that turn the media and its messages against itself. At the end of the term we will showcase these works at our own art show/exhibit that we curate and promote as a way of highlighting the practical value of fair use within creative communities.  The main focus of this FIG is planning, marketing, and producing art for the Annual UO ©ritical A®t Show, which we will pair with the UO Hip Hop Jam. Deep-Dive FIG : Please note this FIG contains a challenging long-term project. This course has been vetted by First-Year Programs to ensure first-term students can achieve success. The instructor will be available to assist students along the way. CINE 230 Remix Cultures - CoreEd or major satisfying course In "Remix Cultures," students learn the historical, practical, and critical views of "intellectual property" (IP) by analyzing everything from the UO mascot to Jay-Z. The course highlights how “ideas” are part of a remix continuum: new ideas often remix the great ideas that preceded them and will themselves be remixed in the future. Students will deconstruct the relationship between politics and economics and interrogate the everyday ways that their lives are governed by (and often break) IP laws. Remix Cultures provides students with a broad yet fundamental knowledge of how "IP" and "innovation" impact their lives: students of all majors engage with intellectual properties daily and may seek professions in fields that valorize intellectual property. By asking all students to actively and critically engage consumer media culture as intellectual property, the course provides a better understanding of how collaborative efforts are governed by laws that typically value and reward a singular author/genius. ARTD 250  Print Media Digital Arts - CoreEd or major satisfying course Examines application of print media in contemporary visual culture; explores its use in a fine art context. Introduces digital drawing, digital photo editing, and typographic layout to visually communicate expressive concepts. Laboratories, lectures. Repeatable once for 8 maximum credits. Meet your FIG Assistants and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.