Coffee: Chemistry and Culture | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Coffee: Chemistry and Culture Academic Team: Christopher Hendon ( chendon@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Adele Bauer ( abauer@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 7 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16244: R: 2:00PM-2:50PM, WIL 112 CH 221 General Chemistry 1- 4 Credits CRN: 11117: MTWRF: 11:00AM-11:50AM, COL 150 CH 227- General Chemistry Lab- 2 Credits CRN: 11128: W: 12:00PM-2:50PM, KLA 109 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Cafes serve many roles in the community. They are places for people to gather and connect, and to sip a coffee and contemplate. They are also connection points that bridge science and society, trying to prepare tasty extracts by controlling chemistry and physics. This FIG canvases the landscape of coffee research to date, detailing areas that require further study, as well as discussing our early efforts to better understand the key factors that determine cup quality and reproducibility.   The FIG will involve a mixture of lectures, as well as interfacing with Eugene’s local specialty coffee purveyors visiting multiple cafes around the city, merging science with local businesses. The FIG involves a heavy component of coffee tasting and using descriptive language to realize similarities and differences in individual tasting preferences.  The FIG is assessed over the Thanksgiving holiday break — students will make a video recording of themselves tasting the coffee that they over the holiday, describing the flavor profile. Check out more about Professor Hendon's research here. This FIG is unavailable for Advanced Registration. The math and chemistry placement tests must be completed prior to students being eligible to enroll. CH 221 General Chemistry I - CoreEd or major satisfying course Chemistry is the study of matter and the changes that it undergoes. It is a science that is central to our understanding of the natural world and it serves as a foundation for all other scientific disciplines. The General Chemistry sequence, beginning with CH 221, is designed for science majors and pre-professional students, and provides an introduction to the experimental and theoretical foundations of chemistry. Students will gain factual knowledge about the terminology and language of chemistry as well as an understanding of the underlying reasons why chemical processes occur. They will be expected to interpret, reason and problem solve using fundamental chemical principles. Upon successful completion of this first course in the sequence, students will have an understanding of the basic scientific measurement system, chemical calculations, the components of matter, the use of formulas and equations in relation to chemical calculations, the major classes of chemical reactions, heat changes associated with chemical reactions and atomic structure. Interwoven throughout the sequence will be an emphasis on development of the problem solving skills fundamental for success in future science courses. Courses in the General Chemistry sequence are to be taken in order and students enrolled must have completed at least one year of high school chemistry or the equivalent. Portions of the sequence are somewhat math intensive and for this reason, College Algebra (MATH 111) is a pre-requisite for CH 221. CH 227 General Chemistry Lab - CoreEd or major satisfying course First term of the three-term laboratory sequence: basic laboratory skills, quantitative relationships, qualitative analysis, calorimetry. Meet Your Instructor and FIG Assistant! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.