When Justice Fails: Wrongful Convictions in the U.S. Criminal Justice System | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About When Justice Fails:  Wrongful Convictions in the U.S. Criminal Justice System Academic Team: Robert Rocklin ( rrocklin@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Bree Johnson ( aubreej@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First-Year Experience Seminar - 1 credit CRN: 16289, T: 2:00pm-3:20pm, PETR 102 SOC 207 Social Inequality - 4 credits CRN:14886, TR: 10:00am-11:20am, LIL 182, +DIS: 14890, F: 10:00am-10:50am, FR 106 Law 102 Intro to Criminal Law - 4 credits CRN: 13102, MW: 4:00pm-5:50pm, KNI 110 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Since 1989, nearly 3,500 people have been found to have been wrongfully convicted by our criminal legal system.  Collectively, those exonerees have served nearly 32,000 years in prison for crimes they did not commit.  For example, Jesse Johnson was convicted by a Salem, Oregon jury of a 1998 aggravated murder and sentenced to death.  He walked out of prison last year—after 25 years on death row—when his lawyers found additional evidence that supported his innocence. In this class, we will examine the causes and effects of wrongful convictions.  We will consider such issues as: What the actual rate of wrongful convictions is False confessions Prosecutorial misconduct The use of DNA in exonerating the innocent The role of race in wrongful convictions and exonerations “Junk” forensic science and wrongful convictions Eyewitness testimony Compensation for wrongful conviction and incarceration Collateral consequences of wrongful convictions We will consider why the U.S. criminal legal system produces wrongful convictions and what can be done about it. We will have videos, guest speakers, and lively discussions. SOC 207 Social Inequality- CoreEd or major satisfying course Our world is structured by unequal social relations that permeate all aspects of our lives. All societies have systems of stratification which result in the unequal distribution of economic, social, and political resources. These systems of stratification are complex, pervasive, and persistent yet highly variable. Focusing primarily on the United States, we explore the structural bases of inequality by examining three intersecting stratification systems: class, race, and gender. We also examine individual and collective experiences of people differently located in these systems of stratification. Through lectures, discussions, and videos, we will think critically about social inequality, and how that's reflected in our own social worlds and our personal experiences. LAW 102 Intro to Criminal Law - CoreEd or major satisfying course What should count as a crime? What, if anything, justifies criminal punishment? Why is it that America, the “land of the free,” has the highest incarceration rate in the world? Bridging theory and practice, this course explores philosophical questions about what criminal law and punishment ought to be like and equips students to understand how criminal law and punishment actually function in the United States. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.