FYE Assistants | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About FYE Assistants The FA position offers exceptional undergraduate students the opportunity to be leaders and mentors to first-year students participating in a First-Year Experience (FYE). FAs assist FYE Seminar faculty in the development, planning, and instruction of the course. FAs organize educational and social activities to better acquaint their students with each other, faculty members, and the university. These activities may include library orientation, study groups, lunch with a professor, field trips, and more. This is a fall term only position. Online Application Print Application Position Description The FA position offers undergraduate students the opportunity to be leaders and mentors to first-year students participating in an FYE.  FAs assist faculty in the development, planning, and instruction of the course.  FAs organize educational and social activities to better acquaint their students with each other, faculty members, and the University. These activities may include library orientation, study groups, lunch with a professor, field trips, and more. Extensive training and support is provided for all FAs. Qualifications Sophomore standing or higher by Fall 2024 3.0 GPA or higher (Exceptions can be made, please reach out to fypoutreach@uoregon.edu to discuss circumstances or any questions) Successful completion (B or higher) in at least one of the core education courses offered in a FIG Flexibility, strong communication and organizational skills, and the ability to work both independently and within groups. Participation in an FYE as a freshman is not required. Compensation and Hours 3-5 hours per week at $14/hour for weekly training in spring term 2024 6-10 hours per week at $15.00/hour or about $1,400 for fall term The hours for the FA position are very flexible FA Resources New and current FAs' entire job manual is located on the FIG Community: Trainings and Curriculum Planning Space. Access to training items and job duties for the FA position, as well as resources that will help your FIG students are available by clicking the link below and logging onto the site with your DuckID and password. If you have any questions, please contact the FIG Program Advisor at 541-346-2896  or email fypoutreach@uoregon.edu . Go to FIG Community Back to Top About Work with Us FYE Assistants FYE Faculty FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.