My Visual Story | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About My Visual Story Academic Team: Robert Voelker-Morris ( rmorris1@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Mazzy Zimmerman ( mazzyz@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16270: T: 4:00-5:20pm, PLC 072 ENG 280 Intro to Comic Studies – 4 credits CRN: 11905: TR: 10:00am-11:20am, LIB 101, +DIS CRN: 11906: F: 11:00am- 11:50am, ANS 195 ASIA 399 Special Studies – 4 credits CRN: 10641: TR: 2:00pm-3:20pm, HED 146 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Art for action!  Comics for change!  In what ways does art show us the world around us, our history, and who we are? Using comic books and contemporary media we will explore the ways in which artists and authors tell our personal and cultural narratives. In this class, you will also create art and explore hands-on what it means to be an artist. Together, we will imagine and compose artistic and cultural stories in comic book form. Deep Dive FIG: Please note this FIG contains an intermediate course at the 300-level. This course has been vetted by First Year Programs to ensure first-term students can achieve success. The instructor will be available to assist students along the way. ENG 280 Introduction to Comic Studies - CoreEd or major satisfying course This course provides an introduction to the analysis of comics and graphic narratives in terms of their poetics, genres, forms, history, and the academic discipline of Comics Studies. Our multifaceted examination will balance close readings of primary texts with in-depth research and analysis of the development of the form in U.S. culture. By reading a range of comic-art forms (the newspaper strip, the comic book, the graphic novel, etc.), informed by several examples of contemporary comics scholarship, we will investigate the medium’s complex interplay of word and image as well as the role of cultural factors in the publication history of comics. Fulfills A&L, English Major, Lower-Division Elective, English Minor, Comics Studies Minor ASIA 399 Special Studies - Elective satisfying course, Applies to overall degree Japanese fashions, games, manga, anime, toys, music, and more have spread worldwide and have created a new form of national superpower. Anime has played an important role in international events like the Olympics; anime fan cons are held around the world and attract tens of thousands of people. What makes Japanese popular culture so fascinating? We will look at how various kinds of people have used Japanese popular culture to form communities, make statements about gender and identity, and to overturn cultural stereotypes. We will analyze how Japanese popular culture both “belongs” to Japan and has become an “international “culture, linking people around the world. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.