Open for Business | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Open for Business Academic Team: Matthias Vogel ( matvogel@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Madelyn Rutledge ( mrutled3@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16271: T: 6:00- 6:50pm, PETR 103 BA 101Z Intro to Business Administration – 4 credits CRN: 10658: MW: 10:00am-11:50am, LIL 182 GER 141 German for Business – 4 credits CRN: 16948: TR: 12:00pm- 1:50pm, COL 45 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: In our FIG we get down to business right away. We learn about basic concepts of business and economics in real-world settings in the United States and in Germany which we combine with learning the German language. Germany is one of the largest economies in the world and the biggest in Europe. Knowledge of German for business opens doors for internships, careers, and post-college success. Besides, we will have fun together as we explore ways to study language and to get ahead. This FIG is for highly motivated achievers who mean business and get satisfaction from striving for success. GER 141 German for Business - CoreEd or major satisfying course Introduction to German language and culture to start building meaningful relationships and personal connections with peers and potential business partners on different career paths. Coursework includes interpreting authentic German language sources (reading/listening/viewing) and producing language in presentational and interpersonal modes of communication (oral and written discussions, presentations) in familiar, everyday contexts. No prior experience with German language required, new language learners are welcome! BA 101 Introduction to Business Administration - CoreEd or major satisfying course This course is designed to challenge you to learn about private enterprise and to better understand how organizations operate within that environment. The course will help you understand and think carefully about the economic dimensions of your life. You have four roles in the private enterprise system: consumer, employee, owner and citizen. To make informed decisions in each of these roles, you need to understand both the basic principles of the system and its complexity.You will begin building your understanding by studying the kinds of decisions that are made in organizations, the models managers use to help them make the decisions and how those decisions are shaped by the competitive environment. You will be actively involved in making business decisions in a competitive environment and using the underlying models to improve your decisions over time. Your decision-making experience should help you to appreciate each of your economic roles. As a consumer, understanding an organization's marketing decisions should provide insight upon your impact as a consumer; understanding human resource management decisions should help you understand your present and future employment relationships; and understanding entrepreneurship and how stock markets work should help you understand the potential of ownership. Most importantly, building your understanding of how the whole system works should prepare you to meet your duties as a citizen with responsibility in setting the rules that shape business decisions and give definition to society. Building understanding is like building anything else. You need raw materials and you need to engage in an active process that combines the raw materials into something new. In this case, the raw materials are business vocabulary, concepts, and models that are provided in the course. The active process will involve teamwork and in-class participation. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.