Speak to the World | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Speak to the World Academic Team: Mathilde Begu ( mbegu@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Nelly Bescond ( nellyb@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 10 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 Credit CRN: 16280: W: 4:00 – 4:50 PM, MCK 151 LING 144 How to Learn Language – 4 credits CRN: 13115: TR: 10:00 – 11:20 AM, HED 220, +DIS CRN: 13116: F: 10:00 – 10:50 AM, ALL 141 First or Second Year Language Course – 5 credits Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: Are you planning to take a language class this year? This FIG is about how to enjoy and get the most out of learning another language. During the term, we will explore general principles and individual differences in language learning, and how these apply to your own experiences as you learn a language. We’ll discuss what language, communication, and culture-in-interaction mean, experiment with using specific language learning strategies, and develop metacognitive skills that will apply not only to language learning but learning and life in general (both personal and professional). Throughout the course you will have the opportunity to support and learn from each other in your language-learning journeys. You will explore how languages relate to your own personal or community history, how they play a role in your present experiences at UO, and how they might impact your future goals, desires, and professions. You will be able to share the highlights of these experiences with your peers at the end of the term.  Everyone’s path with language is a little different – let’s explore these paths together! LING 144 How to Learn Language - CoreEd satisfying course, 4-credits This course will help you discover how to be a more successful language learner. You will learn about the cognition that underlies language and communication and you will develop an understanding of how humans learn in general, with a special focus on language learning, including the differences between learning heritage and second languages. You will learn to distinguish declarative knowledge (facts) and procedural knowledge (skills), implicit and explicit learning, and the primary communicative functions of language (listening, speaking, reading and writing). This course will also help you develop intercultural awareness, which in turn feeds awareness of your own cultural values and gives you tools to be a more informed global citizen. The course covers both theoretical and practical applications of research-based learning strategies. The skills you gain in this class will be transferable to any learning endeavor you might take on. You will explore how to establish your own learning goals, to learn collaboratively as a community, and to discover your weaknesses and strengths as learners. You will think critically and creatively about how to draw upon your strengths and address your weaknesses when faced with any new learning situation. With the knowledge from this class, you will be able to take control of your own learning: identify which strategies work best for each kind of knowledge relevant to using a language and which strategies work best for you as a unique individual learner. If you have any questions, feel free to contact the instructor by clicking on the email button above. Choose your language path: Any first or second year language course, see below for examples: SPAN 101, GER 101, PORT 101, KRN 101, SPAN 111, FR 111, FR 112, GER 201, JPN 201, SPAN 201 etc. Meet your FIG Assistant and Instructor! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.