Social Change & Collective Liberation | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Social Change & Collective Liberation Academic Team: Andrea Herrera ( aherrera@uoregon.edu ) First-Year Experience Seminar Instructor Bailey Posey ( bposey@uoregon.edu ) FIG Assistant 9 credits UGST 109 First Year Experience Seminar – 1 credit CRN: 16245: T: 4:00-4:50pm, STB 154 ES 101 Intro to Ethnic Studies – 4 credits CRN: 12108: TR: 2:00-3:20pm, GSH 123, +DIS CRN: 12115: F: 1:00-1:50pm, MCK 471 WGS 101 Intro to Women & Gender Studies – 4 credits CRN: 15331: TR: 10:00-11:20am, PAC 123, +DIS CRN: 15336: F: 10:00-10:50am, ESL 105 Matrix View Schedule About the FIG: In the Collective Liberation and Social Change FIG, we live by the truth that “nobody’s free until everybody’s free” - a quote from civil rights hero Fannie Lou Hamer. The professor for this FIG is Dr. Andrea P Herrera, a queer sociologist who has worked in homelessness and food justice, antiracism, queer liberation, and other social movements in Eugene for the past 12 years. In our class, we’ll explore systems of inequality like sexism, racism, transphobia, and so many others. We’ll take trips to museums, go to local events, create zines, buttons, and other art, and gather in community to understand the ways we are ALL connected to each other. We know from history that efforts toward social change and liberation from systems of inequality must be COLLECTIVE - nobody can do everything, but everybody can do something. Come be a part of a compassionate group of humans dedicated toward making the world better for everyone, not just ourselves! ES 101 Intro to Ethnic Studies - CoreEd or major satisfying course This course is an introduction to the academic field of Ethnic Studies, the interdisciplinary, comparative and relational study of race, ethnicity and indigeneity in the United States. It surveys how the histories and experiences of people of color in America have been shaped by systems of domination, including but not limited to, white supremacy and white settler colonialism, capitalism and heteropatriarchy. Special attention is paid to how domination and acts/arts of resistance create and recreate racial subjects. WGS 101 Intro to Women & Gender Studies - CoreEd or major satisfying course Placing women's experiences at the center of interpretation, this class introduces basic concepts and perspectives in Women's and Gender Studies. Focusing on contemporary women's issues, we will examine women's lives with a particular emphasis on the ways in which gender interacts with race, class, sexual orientation and ethnicity. The central aim is to foster critical reading and thinking about women's lives and the ways in which the interlocking systems of colonialism, racism, sexism, ethnocentrism, ageism, and heterosexism shape people's lives. We will also examine how women have resisted these inequalities, worked to create new systems of change, and engaged in national and global transformational politics. Specific topics may include race and racism, body image, sexuality, AIDS and cancer, sexual and domestic violence, and workplace and family issues. We will place these contemporary concerns within their historical, cultural, social, and theoretical contexts, and students will have the opportunity to engage in active discussion. Meet Your Instructor and FIG Assistant! UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.