Pre-College Resources | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu Back to First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Menu Summer SAIL Summer SAIL Overview Eligibility Program Options Program Options Overview Week One Week Two Week Three High School Credit Day-Only Program FAQs Residential Program FAQs Year-Round Programs Español Español Overview Descripciones de los programas de verano Descripciones de los programas de verano Overview Semana uno Semana dos Semana tres Scholarships Scholarships Overview Applying for a SAIL General Scholarship Applying for a SAIL Housing Scholarship Resources Resources Overview Pre-College Resources Pre-College Resources Overview Preparing for College Paying for College Picking a Major and Career UO Student Resources UO Student Resources Overview Academic Resources Financial Resources Health & Food Resources Other Resources Donate About Us About Us Overview SAIL Staff SAIL Volunteers Employment Opportunities Employment Opportunities Overview Pre-College Mentors Summer Counselors Summer RA Summer Night Manager Lead and Junior Lead Statement on Black Lives Matter and Dreamers Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Student Academy to Inspire Learning Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Promoted Sections Summer SAIL Year-Round Programs Español Scholarships Resources Donate About Us Pre-College Resources Preparing for College College Essay Tips : Learn the dos and don'ts of writing a college admissions or scholarship essay. These helpful tips and essay example prompts will help guide you through the writing process. Watch Our Youtube Videos Advice to a High School Student (March 1, 2022): Hear from college students at the University of Oregon about what advice they'd give to a high school student. Advice to a High School Student (March 14, 2018): University of Oregons students answer questions about the application process and college life. Tips and Tricks for College (March 14, 2018): UO students break down the tips and tricks they've learned while navigating their college experience. Choosing a College College Scorecard : Search by location, size, academic program and many other criteria. It also includes what students actually pay after financial aid is included (the net price), graduation rates, and information about how much students typically borrow. College Greenlight : Helps you find the perfect school and sends you reminders about application deadlines and scholarships matches. Unigo : Advice and reviews from current college students, including videos and photos. College counselors and other experts offer information and advice. Back to Top Paying for College Federal Student Aid : FAFSA, Parent Plus Loan application, Undergraduate Entrance Counseling, and Undergraduate and Parent Master Promissory Note, information about different forms of aid and loans, and loan servicer information. UO Financial Aid : Scholarships for incoming freshman, applying for aid, different aid types, costs, financial aid checklist. UO Financial Wellness : How to plan a budget, financial wellness, financial aid seminars, workshops about budgeting, loans, credit management, savings, post-grad, and obtaining scholarships. PathwayOregon : Covers tuition and fees for 4 years at UO, connecting with pathway advisors, tutoring, and workshops. College Budget Calculator : Access our spreadsheet that will walk you through setting a budget for your college experience. Back to Top Picking a Major and Career Explore Majors : This webpage on the Academic Advising site offers information about the process of picking and declaring a major. Majors and Minors : Check out all the majors and minors available at the University of Oregon on this Admissions webpage. Back to Top Resources Pre-College Resources Preparing for College Paying for College Picking a Major and Career UO Student Resources Connect with SAIL! sailstaff@uoregon.edu |    Instagram: @uo.sail |   541-346-4668 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.