Common Reading new | UO First-Year Programs Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Menu First-Year Programs Menu First-Year Interest Groups First-Year Interest Groups Overview Week of Welcome What is a FIG How to Join a FIG/FYE Fall 2024 FIGs FIGs FAQ First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About About Overview Work with Us Work with Us Overview FYE Assistants FYE Faculty Work with Us FYE Faculty Menu FYE Faculty Overview FIG Faculty Proposals Faculty Binder Materials FA Alumni Blog Staff Directory Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give First-Year Programs Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success Main navigation First-Year Interest Groups First-Year and Transfer Seminars FYE/Transfer Communities Common Reading SAIL About Common Reading new COMMON READING ​​​​​ Share a story. Share an experience. Upcoming events How to participate Suggest a theme Past selections Program FAQ Contact program 'Hijab Butch Blues' will be our next Common Reading selection for 2024-25 Learn More What is UO Common Reading? Common Reading creates community across campus. Each year, the Common Reading program presents an engaging selection, often a book, that will be the focus of a campus-wide discussion. Enjoy the opportunity to meet authors, have lively discussions with peers, and experience the piece inside and outside of the classroom. "I think that author visits are very influential for future students. There is a lot of value in hearing an author’s experience in person as well as when reading their book." A First-Year Student The program started in 2009 as an initiative of the Clark Honors College. In 2014, it expanded to include all first-year students. Common Reading is now coordinated by the Division of Undergraduate Education and Student Success and has had support from the Office of the President, the Office of the Provost, the Division of Student Life, the Division of Equity and Inclusion, and the Center for the Study of Women in Society among others. Although the selection changes each year, Common Reading is always about building community, enriching curriculum, and engaging research through the shared experience of an important work. 3,996 UO-affiliated participants Are Taking part in Common Reading events this year How to get involved The program is open to the entire campus community, and there's many ways to participate, whether you're faculty, staff, or a student. First-year students receive a copy of the Common Reading selection during IntroDUCKtion, and participants can get a free copy from the university library. ​​​ ►  Find past and upcoming Common Reading events ►  Sponsor Common Reading or have it sponsor your event ►  Work with the book in your classroom or group ►  Hold a pop-up book distribution event ►  Host your own event in partnership with the program Suggest a theme & title The Common Reading program solicits suggestions from the campus and area community as we begin our search to find the next year’s reading selection, which can be a book, podcast, documentary, film, or another work. From there, a committee of campus partners, faculty, students, and program administrators work to narrow the choices to create a shortlist of finalists. Some years, the choice for the selection from that group has been a unanimous decision. In other years, we seek the input from our campus community and the public to help decide what piece will be at the center of the next year’s conversation. Send us your suggestion Each nomination is considered for how well it meets each of the following criteria: Appeal to both faculty and first-year students (i.e., have a strong narrative or narrative voice that pulls readers in and builds empathy) Focus on a subject of timely, topical relevance Provide a strong intellectual hook, offering multiple disciplinary and interdisciplinary jumping-off points for discussion and teaching, inquiry and research Are accessible (in print, of readable length, etc.) Fits the annually selected theme What do you recommend as an important work on this theme that the entire University of Oregon should engage in reading? Past & current themes Ever since 2018, the program has selected themes to go alongside the book selections. Below are previous themes that have been chosen: 2020-2022: Listen. Learn. Act. 2018-2020: Transborder/Transnational Past Common Reading selections 2023-24 2022-23 2021-22 2021 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 2016-2017 2015 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12 ​​​​​ 2010-11 Selection Committee Members 2023-24 Name Position Madison Beine Coordinator of Orientation Programs, Student Orientation Rosa Chavez Director, Center for Multicultural Academic Excellence Jackie Etchison Assistant Director, First-Year Interest Groups Monique Falcon Undergraduate Student Alexis Garcia Post-Graduate Fellow, Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art Rita Gillihan Scheduling Coordinator, First-Year Experience Zoë Haakenstad Executive Assistant, Dean of Students Rebekah Hanley Clinical Professor, Law Audrey Lucero Interim Director, Common Reading Arian Mobasser Men's Resource Center Coordinator, Dean of Students Naomi Pincus Undergraduate Student Esperanza Soliz Undergraduate Student Melissa Soliz Administrative Assistant, First-Year Experience Jeffrey Staiger Humanities Librarian, UO Libraries SJ Wilhelm LGBT Education and Support Services Coordinator, Dean of Students Kristin Yarris Associate Professor, Department of Global Studies Contact us Email us at commonreading@uoregon.edu Follow us on Twitter @CommonUo See the latest on Instagram @uocommonreading First-Year Programs 5256 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-5256 Office: Oregon Hall, Room 107 UNDERGRADUATE EDUCATION AND STUDENT SUCCESS Academic Advising Academic Residential Communities Accessible Education Center First-Year Programs Tutoring and Academic Engagement Center Undergraduate Research CAMPUS RESOURCES Webmail Duckweb Canvas News Events Maps Directions Class Schedule Academic Calendar First-Year Programs 5285 University of Oregon Oregon Hall Room 107 Eugene , OR 97403-5285 P: 541-346-1131 P: 541-346-1136 Student Academy to Inspire Learning (SAIL) 6245 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-4668 fypoutreach@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.