Physical Well-Being | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Physical Well-Being Physical well-being is about recognizing the need for and pursuing regular movement, adequate amounts of sleep, food that fuels your brain and body, and practicing safe behaviors. Movement and proper sleep help relieve stress and contributes to overall well-being. The Duck Nest offers free yoga classes for students. Visit the Duck Nest Instagram @uo_ducknest to stay up to date on upcoming classes. Need a nap on campus? Check out the private Nap Room in the Duck Nest (EMU 041). Students can reserve the space for up to one hour. In addition, the Duck Nest (EMU 041) has sleep kits which contain earplugs, a sleep mask, calming tea, and tips for restful sleep. Physical well-being also is nourishing your body with food that fits your lifestyle, culture, and budget. The Duck Nest hosts free cooking classes every term. Follow the Duck Nest on Instagram @uo_ducknest to be the first to know about upcoming cooking classes, and to catch up on our Recipes of the Week! The Duck Rides X Duck Nest Grocery Shuttle provides free transportation to low-cost grocery stores every week. Learn more and reserve your spot on the Duck Nest website . Many students qualify for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which provides monthly funds for groceries. In collaboration with the UO Basic Needs Program , students at the Duck Nest can assist you in signing up for SNAP and direct you to other free food resources in the community. Seeking support for eating disorders or disordered eating? University Health Services can provide initial consultations and referrals for students concerned about eating disorders and disordered eating. Call 541-346-2770 or go to myUOHealth to schedule an appointment. Eating Disorder Awareness and Support (EDAS) is a student organization dedicated to expanding eating disorder education, awareness, and resources at the UO. EDAS provides resources to students and families, presentations, and peer support groups. Practice safe behaviors. Take care of your body with regular visits to your primary care provider. Call 541-346-2770 or go to myUOHealth to schedule an appointment. Do you get your seasonal flu shot each year? Learn more about the required and highly recommended vaccines you can get at UHS. Take care of your lungs. Find out how to quit smoking or vaping at the UHS pharmacy. Feeling low on vitamin D during the rainy winter? The Duck Nest has sun lamps which simulate sunlight and may reduce the effects of seasonal affective disorder . Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.