Guidance for COVID-19 Cases | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Primary Care Acute Care Sports Medicine Specialty Care Lab and X-ray Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Five Important Things to Know and Do When You Have COVID-19 Your immune system is the best medicine for fighting off this virus. Your immune system is, in fact, the most effective anti-viral treatment around. Help support your immune system by resting, staying well hydrated, eating nourishing foods, and staying connected (safely) to friends and family. For more information on managing your symptoms, refer to Self-Care for Viral Illness . Be the last person in the chain of infection. Isolate (stay home) until all COVID-19 symptoms are improving and until 24 hours have elapsed since your last fever (without the use of anti-fever medications like Tylenol and ibuprofen). Fever is defined as any temperature of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or higher. Find more information under Isolation Guidelines . Monitor yourself for symptoms . Some people have no symptoms while others have a range of symptoms. Most people get better over about one to two weeks. Be aware of potentially serious alarm symptoms and get immediate help if you have questions or concerns. If you need to speak with a triage nurse at University Health Services, call us at 541-346-2770, day or night. Alarm symptoms that should prompt you to call 911 to get immediate medical help include: Trouble breathing, feeling very short of breath Persistent chest pain or pressure Pale, gray, or blue-colored skin, lips, or nail beds, depending on skin tone Inability to stay awake even if you are well rested Confusion, not being able to think normally Get support! If you need resources and support for your isolation, the Peer Health Navigator Team can help you. Call them at 541-346-2292 or send an email to careteam@uoregon.edu for assistance. If you need emotional support, you can access Counseling Services at 541-346-3227. During the time you’re sick, it’s best to avoid heavy exercise. Gentle stretching, foam rolling, or low intensity yoga are OK. There is evidence that SARS-CoV-2 can cause inflammation in the heart muscle and increase the risk of blood clots. These are rare but potentially dangerous complications. You should monitor yourself for symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath, trouble breathing, palpitations, or swelling/discoloration in hands and feet. Five Important Things to Know and Do as you Recover from COVID-19 Isolation When your isolation ends, you should still wear a mask around others until a full 10 days have passed from your symptom onset or positive test. (If you’ve had severe symptoms or are severely immunocompromised, extending this period to 20 days is recommended.) You will then be considered no longer infectious. Even though you have had COVID-19, new strains of the virus continue to evolve and emerge. Consider additional COVID-19 vaccination as recommended by the CDC. COVID-19 vaccines are available at University Health Services by appointment (call 541-346-2770 or make an online appointment at the myUOHealth portal ). Some people have lingering symptoms such as fatigue, brain fog, mood changes, and body aching after recovery. If this is true for you, give yourself a week or two of rest then, if symptoms persist, schedule an appointment for evaluation. If symptoms are significant or worsening, schedule a medical appointment for evaluation. Get support! If you need resources and support, the Peer Health Navigator Team can help you. Call them at 541-346-2292 or send an email to careteam@uoregon.edu for assistance. If you need emotional support, you can access Counseling Services at 541-346-3227. Return to exercise gradually. Guidelines for returning to exercise following COVID-19 are based on the duration and severity of your symptoms, any pre-existing medical conditions, your pre-infection fitness, and the planned intensity of your intended post-infection exercise. As a rule, a gradual return to exercise over seven to fourteen days is recommended, monitoring your exercise tolerance as you go. More detailed and specific information on return to exercise is available in our Sports Medicine section. COVID-19 Cases: Isolation Guidelines If you tested positive for COVID-19 or are having COVID-19 symptoms, please be a good citizen and follow the guidance below to reduce the possibility of transmitting the infection to others. All cases, regardless of vaccination status or prior COVID-19 infection, should: Isolate (stay home) until all COVID-19 symptoms are improving and until 24 hours have elapsed from last fever (without the use of anti-fever medications like Tylenol and ibuprofen). Fever is defined as any temperature of 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or higher. Wear a mask when you are around other people until 10 full days have elapsed from the date you tested positive or developed symptoms (whichever date came first). Avoid any contact with high-risk individuals (such as people who have underlying health conditions or are immunocompromised) for 10 days. If you live in the UO residence halls, the Peer Resource Team will be reaching out to you with specific information about isolating in the residence halls. The UO follows an “isolate-in-place with informed consent” policy, which means most students can isolate in their current room assignment (complying with infection prevention procedures) if they and their roommate(s) consent to that arrangement. If you develop severe symptoms or if you are severely immunocompromised, continue to wear a mask and avoid higher-risk people for 20 days from symptom onset or positive test. Talk with your provider for specific information. If you are a healthcare worker or work with a more vulnerable population (such as people living in temporary housing, shelters, adult foster homes, detention facilities), there may be more restrictive guidance for returning to in-person work. Please consult with your employer for up-to-date guidance. Guidance for COVID-19 Close Contacts Monitoring and Testing Guidelines If You’ve Been Exposed to COVID-19 Most people exposed to COVID-19, (e.g., close contacts) do not need to quarantine (e.g., stay away from other people) during the time they are most likely to become infected. Close contacts, however, should be aware of their potential to become infected and to infect others around them. If you are a close contact, regardless of vaccination status or prior COVID-19 infection, you should do the following: Monitor yourself for viral symptoms for 10 days after your last exposure (with last exposure being Day 0). If you do develop symptoms, test yourself for COVID-19. A single home test does not rule out infection; it’s best to test yourself twice with at least 36 hours between the tests. You’ll want to isolate during this time. Avoid unnecessary visits with high-risk individuals, such as people who have underlying health conditions or are immunocompromised. If you are sharing a room with someone who has COVID, it is highly recommended you wear a mask at all times when you are around them. Also consider wearing a mask in classrooms and residence halls where you may be around larger groups of people for prolonged periods of time. It is highly recommended that you test yourself for COVID-19 five days after last exposure. If symptoms develop and/or you have a positive COVID-19 test, follow guidance at the top of this page. Main menu Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.