Travel Medicine | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Primary Care Acute Care Sports Medicine Specialty Care Lab and X-ray Travel Medicine Taking on the world begins with taking care of yourself. We provide a full spectrum of Travel Medicine services for students traveling abroad, whether for academic programs, for vacation, or for service learning and other opportunities. If you are traveling through Global Education Oregon (GEO) , they can provide you with information about healthcare requirements for your study abroad program. If you wish to schedule a travel consult appointment, your first task is to fill out a Pre-Travel Worksheet in the myUOHealth portal to inform us of your travel plans. We will then contact you and discuss when to schedule your appointment. We will also provide a link to a Healthy Ducks Abroad learning module, which you will complete prior to your appointment. We recommend scheduling your travel consult approximately six weeks prior to your departure. All Travel Health appointments include the following: Review of the traveler's medical history and itinerary Review of immunization history and discussion of routine, recommended and required vaccines, all of which can be provided at UHS Review of Healthy Ducks Abroad learning module, which discusses health and safety while traveling, covering such things as insect precautions, sun protection, food and beverage selection, STI prevention, medical care while abroad, and general safety and security measures Completion of any required forms Some itineraries may also call for a prescription for anti-malaria medications, anti-diarrheal medications, and altitude sickness medications. To obtain Travel Medicine services Go to the myUOHealth portal and complete a Pre-Travel Worksheet, found in the Forms section. Do this at least 6-8 weeks but not more than 6 months before departure. Once the Pre-Travel Worksheet is submitted, we will call you within five business days to discuss an appointment time. Please make sure your phone number is correct in our system so we can reach you. It helps if your voicemail is functional so we can leave you a message. If you have not heard from us in more than five days, please check your voicemail and/or call Clinic G at 541-346-2739. If we do not already have your complete vaccination records, upload them to the myUOHealth portal. Almost all vaccines can be administered at University Health Services (see below). Prior to your appointment, print your travel forms, complete your self-evaluation sections, and bring them with you to your travel clinic appointment. Bring a list of any medications, including over-the-counter medicines, and a thorough knowledge of your medical history. Questions? Call University Health Services Clinic G at 541-346-2739. Travel Vaccinations University Health Services offers the following vaccinations for travel: yellow fever, typhoid, rabies, Japanese encephalitis, and polio for travelers. We will also review your routine vaccinations and make sure you are up to date. Learn more about all vaccinations available at UHS . Additional Travel Information CDC Travelers' Health CDC COVID-19 Travel Recommendations by Country TripPrep.com —extensive information about destinations and health and saftey concerns International Association for Medical Assistance to Travellers (IAMAT) —numerous travel health resources Main menu Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.