International Student Plan | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu UO Student Insurance In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) International Student Plan Fall Open Enrollment: August 1–October 9, 2024 2024–25 Annual Premium: $3,516 (paid as $1,172 per term) The UO’s waiver criteria is strictly enforced. Before purchasing an alternative plan, please carefully review the waiver criteria . NEW WAIVER REQUEST PROCESS International students are required to have insurance which meets or exceeds the university's requirements. If you have other health insurance, you may request a waiver. Be sure to carefully review the university's health insurance waiver criteria before purchasing any alternative health plan. If you are a graduate employee, you must submit your Waiver Request Form through the GTFF Office. To Submit a Waiver Request: Gather any/all documentation about your other health insurance coverage. Visit waive.pacificsource.com/uo . Create an account (if you already have an account with PacificSource, you will use that login information). Submit a waiver request. Upload copies of your documentation. Deadline to submit a waiver for fall 2024 is October 9, 2024. Request a Waiver from PacificSource Academic Year 2024–25 Plan Documents The University of Oregon requires that all international students have health insurance to help cover unexpected medical expenses that may arise. This includes international students who are studying abroad or have an approved medical or vacation term. All international students are automatically enrolled in and billed for the UO Student Health Benefits Plan. The University of Oregon is pleased to partner with PacificSource to offer a high-quality, affordable health plan for the 2024–25 year. For specific plan details, review the following documents: 2024–25 Summary of Benefits and Coverage, International 2024–25 Plan Summary, International 2024–25 Student Guide, International 2024–25 Adult Dental Plan, International You may also refer to PacificSource for additional resources, such as ordering an ID card or downloading the myPacificSource app. (Note: Once you have downloaded the myPacificSource app, create a user account searching by your UO Student ID number. You will then have access to your digital ID card). Highlights of the Plan Excellent medical and prescription drug coverage for services at University Health Services and with our local partners. Compliant with the Affordable Care Act—federally certified as Minimum Essential Coverage (MEC). Coverage anywhere: Your benefits tag along wherever you go, offering 24/7 emergency medical care and assistance anywhere in the world (excluding your home country). Coverage throughout the year—at school, at home, while traveling—our extensive network of providers keeps you covered as long as you are enrolled in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan. Affordability: low cost of coverage, co-pays and deductibles with caps on annual out-of-pocket costs help eliminate the stress of finding great coverage. Mobile apps to keep you connected and healthy on the move. Cost of Plan and How to Pay The total annual cost is $3,516. This breaks down to $1,172 per student, per term ($293 per month, when comparing to other plans). The deadline for fall term premium payment is October 9, 2024. If you do not pay your premiums before this deadline, you will have an academic hold placed on your account and may be subject to a late-payment fee of $100. Charges are billed to the student’s account in three installments (once per term during the fall, winter, and spring terms). Student Billing accepts cash, check, money order, and online payments (which includes the use of credit cards). How to Enroll Dependents International students are required to provide insurance that meets the UO standards for their eligible dependents who are with them here in the United States. Dependents cost the same per term/semester as students. To enroll a dependent, please email uostudentinsure@uoregon.edu and complete the following steps: Use the Subject Line: “Add Dependent.” Send us a message being sure to include your dependent’s full/legal name, date of birth, gender, and relationship to you. All dependents will be verified through the Office of International Affairs. Dependents are not eligible for medical services at the University Health Services. Go to PacificSource to find an in-network provider. How to Submit a Waiver Request Gather any/all documentation about your other health insurance coverage. Visit waive.pacificsource.com/uo . Create an account (if you already have an account with PacificSource, you will use that login information). Submit a waiver request. Upload copies of your documentation. Deadline to submit a timely waiver for fall term is October 9, 2024. If you miss this deadline, you may be eligible for a late waiver until November 1, 2024, but you will not receive a refund for the administrative fees on the plan. Main menu Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.