Dental Services | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Dental Services UHS Dental Service is a full-service dental clinic, offering a wide range of dental services, fillings, oral surgery, crowns, implant restorations, bite and athletic guards, emergency care, and dental education. A licensed dentist, registered dental hygienists, and expanded function dental assistants provide all dental services. The dental clinic is available year-round to registered UO students, as well as UO faculty, staff, and their immediate family members 15 years of age and older. Price and Insurance Information Fees listed herein are to serve merely as a guide for cost estimates for the dental services . Detailed cost estimates will be given after an exam and/or prior to scheduling proposed treatment. We accept most dental insurance plans., however we are unable to bill OHP. As a courtesy, we will bill your dental insurance carrier, if applicable. We accept Visa and Mastercard. In addition, we can transfer student and staff balances to their DuckWeb account. Check-In Please arrive at least fifteen minutes prior to your scheduled appointment. Ensure all electronic dental registration forms have been completed. Bring your current dental insurance card or a picture of the front and back of your dental insurance card (if applicable). If you have had dental X-rays taken at another office within the past two years, have them emailed to us at uhcdental@uoregon.edu . Please do not miss your appointment. Cancel all dental appointments by phone or the dental portal no later than 8:00 a.m. the business day before your appointment , to avoid being charged the $35 missed appointment/late cancellation fee. Dental Patient Portal Log in to the Dental Patient Portal for daily clinic hours, appointment requests, information, and updates. Patient Forms At a minimum of 24 hours prior to your appointment, please complete all the required dental forms online. For the Safety of All We ask that only the patient be in the treatment area during the appointment. Exceptions may be made for parents/guardians or other legal representatives accompanying children and people providing mobility support. Visitors will be asked to wait in the waiting room during a patient’s dental treatment. If you or anyone in your household has recently had a known exposure or tested positive for COVID-19, has a fever and/or respiratory symptoms, we ask that you contact us using the dental portal (not your medical portal) or call 541-346-2039 to reschedule your appointment. Contact Us Summer Hours: Mon–Fri, 8:30 a.m.–4:00 p.m. Closed for lunch 1:00–2:00 p.m. 541-346-2039 Email Call or email to schedule an appointment, or to find out if we can directly bill your insurance. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.