Medical Services Anti-Oppression Intention | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Medical Services Anti-Oppression Intention University Health Services medical team acknowledges that the healthcare system in the United States has systems and processes built into it that disenfranchise, disadvantage, alienate, and oppress people and populations living without privilege. Racism, ageism, homophobia, transphobia, fatphobia, ableism, xenophobia, and sexism are not just patterns of thought and behavior that individual people can wield, but also patterns contained in systems that run automatically and create hurt and pain every day. We are working to reduce harm and improve belonging by looking for oppression in our systems and removing it. Here are examples of the work we’ve committed to so far to reduce oppression from our systems and processes: We will verify your pronouns and name at every visit. Your gender identity may change, and we want to make sure we address you correctly at every visit. All our medical intake forms will be gender neutral. Your risk factors for sexually transmitted infections, for example, have nothing to do with your gender identity or sexual orientation, but rather with your body parts and how you use them with other people’s body parts. So that’s how we’ll ask. We will weigh you “closed” (meaning you don’t see the number on the scale) at your visit as a default, unless you ask us to show you the number.  Your weight is merely a reflection of your body’s relationship with gravity. Interpreting how your body size and shape support your health is something you and your provider can talk about together, if it is relevant. We will also respect your right to not be weighed if that is your choice. We will not use the national calculation for kidney function that includes a race-based correction with racist implications. We have other ways to accurately measure your kidney function. The National Kidney Foundation has more information. We will not use a pulmonary function measurement device called a spirometer that includes a race-based correction in the automatic calculation of lung function. We have other ways to assess your pulmonary function. We will ensure our patient education materials are free of harmful and oppressive messaging. We are removing gender references from our posters. We are removing references to rashes as “pink” or “red,” as this is often not the case for all skin tones.  We are adding visuals that represent a fuller spectrum of bodies. We will expand our Transgender and Gender Diverse Care service so all UO students needing gender-affirming hormone therapy have access to the care they need, when they need it, without unnecessary barriers. As options for GAHT reduce in the United States, we are determined to expand. We are removing the term “walk-in” from our scheduling systems. Instead, we will use the term “drop-in.” We will have language interpretation service (from a real person) available through a telephone service in every exam room and point of contact for students who need to communicate in another language for their medical care. We are also working to educate ourselves on our own implicit biases and our own privilege, and how this impacts our work as medical professionals. We are committed to regular training sessions for our medical and clinical staff to ensure we have a common understanding of implicit bias, privilege, and systemic oppression. We are actively seeking to expand the diversity within our medical and clinical staff so UO students have access to clinicians with shared lived experiences. We (like the medical system as a whole) have a long way to go. We will make mistakes. We will miss things. Let us know when this happens so we can apologize, correct, and do better next time. We would welcome any feedback or suggestions for ways we can improve what we do and how we do it. With gratitude, Your Medical Services team Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.