Mental Well-Being | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Mental Well-Being Mental well-being enables people to cope with the stresses of life, realize their abilities, learn well and work well, and contribute to their community. It is an integral component of health and well-being that underpins our individual and collective abilities to make decisions, build relationships, and shape the world we live in. Source: World Health Organization Mental Well-Being Programming The UHS mental well-being team partners with colleagues, departments, and student groups across campus to promote mental health and well-being. Our recurring events, campaigns, and outreach programming focus on destigmatizing the topic of mental health, encouraging self-care, and bringing awareness to some of the mental health issues our campus community faces. Consider some of University Health Services programs: Let’s Talk Duck Nest : Activities and workshops support mental well-being, social connection, identity wellness, and community care. These include a pen pal program during winter term, Art and Identity Hour, and workshops on stress and self-care. Visit our Instagram @uo_ducknest to learn about upcoming events. May is Mental Health Awareness Month Mental Health Awareness Month (MHAM) is a national program recognized at the UO every May. The purpose of MHAM is to raise awareness of the importance of mental health, provide educational opportunities and coping strategies to the campus community, and reduce the stigma that surrounds mental illnesses and help-seeking. The mental well-being team invites and welcomes many campus partners to join us in programmatic efforts to promote mental health. Stress Less Week Academics can be stressful for many of us, especially toward the end of the term. Stress Less is designed to create opportunities for you to explore different ways to practice self-care and find techniques to de-stress during some of the hardest parts of the year. These events are hosted during week 10 of fall, winter, and spring terms. Everyone manages the stress of classes differently, but we are here to support you through those times. Follow us on Instagram @uo_ducknest for mental well-being and other programming. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.