Duck Nest | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Duck Nest Duck Nest Wellness Center The Duck Nest is your resource for self-care and life balance through peer-led mental, physical, and sexual well-being programming. We also connect you with resources within the UO community and beyond. Come into the Duck Nest space to sit and relax, drink some tea, create an aromatherapy packet, feel the warmth of the “happy lights,” or even access the nap/reset room. The Duck Nest is your on-campus space to relax and de-stress, recharge, connect with others, and access lots of resources such as cooking classes, food security resources, safer sex supplies, workshops, presentations, and more. Our Peer Wellness Facilitators help connect you to these and other resources, and provide student-driven well-being programs. The Duck Nest and its programming is focused on students and is accessible by anyone in the UO community with a UO ID, including faculty members and staff. Peer Support is Key Our Peer Wellness Facilitators also offer one-on-one support services for the UO student community. Students staff the space, provide the programming, and connect other students to campus and community resources. Whether it be SNAP enrollment assistance, or simply time to check in about whatever is going on in your life, Peer Wellness Facilitators are here to support you. Peer-to-peer support is a successful strategy cited widely in the literature to significantly improve health outcomes. What We Offer Space to relax and de-stress Workshops, presentations, and tabling events One-on-one social connection Mental well-being programming Physical well-being programming Sexual health supplies and resources Cooking classes and other food resources And more! Connect with Us Follow us on Instagram @uo_ducknest , give us a call at 541-346-0570, or stop by the EMU, Room 041, to say hello. Is your group interested in a Duck Nest presentation during a class or meeting? Would you like to request a Duck Nest table at your upcoming event? Submit an outreach request . Want to know more? Email our current Peer Wellness Facilitators and learn how you can get involved at the Duck Nest. What We Offer Space to relax and de-stress Workshops, presentations, and tabling events One-on-one social connection Sexual health resources Cooking classes and food security resources And more! Duck Nest Spring Term Hours M 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m. T 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m. W 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m. TH 10:00 a.m.–4:00 p.m. F 10:00 a.m.–noon S CLOSED SU CLOSED Contact the Duck Nest Erb Memorial Union, Room 041 (Ground level of the EMU) 541-346-0570 Email Map Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.