Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Primary Care Acute Care Sports Medicine Specialty Care Lab and X-ray Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Can I get contraception through UHS? Yes! UHS provides education about and access to contraceptive methods. Students can make an appointment with a provider to discuss contraceptive methods and to get a prescription, if necessary, for their contraceptive choice. Birth control pills and patches can also be prescribed directly by our pharmacists . Contact the pharmacy to make an appointment. What contraceptive methods are available through UHS? Oral contraceptive pills (birth control pills) Intrauterine systems (IUS) (Mirena, Kyleena, Skyla) Intrauterine device (IUD) (ParaGard) Implant (Nexplanon) Contraceptive ring (NuvaRing) Contraceptive patch Depo-Provera shot Condoms Referrals to community providers to discuss permanent sterilization More information about contraception choices is available from Planned Parenthood. What is the cost for contraception through UHS? Do you accept CCare? UHS can bill your health insurance for contraception. If you do not have insurance, consider signing up for CCare Oregon. Oregon Contraceptive Care (CCare) is a federal program that provides free birth control and contraceptive services to qualifying students. Come to the main reception desk in the health services building for more information or call the CCare medical billing coordinator at 541-346-2452. You can find and fill out the CCare enrollment form in the myUOHealth portal under "Forms." Be aware that it can take up to three days to process the enrollment form. CCare does not cover the cost of birth control consults with the UHS pharmacy. You can learn more about CCare on their website. Emergency Contraception: Plan B, and Ella Emergency contraception reduces the risk of pregnancy after unprotected sex. Emergency contraception must be taken within 120 hours (five days) after unprotected intercourse to avoid pregnancy, but the sooner it is taken, the more effective it will be. It will not harm an existing pregnancy. Plan B: All students 17 or older, regardless of gender, may purchase Plan B from the pharmacy without a prescription. Plan B is provided free to students who qualify for CCare or following a sexual assault. Plan B loses effectiveness if taken more than 72 hours after intercourse. Plan B is less effective for people over 165 lbs/70 kg. Ella: Ella requires a prescription from a medical provider. It is much more effective than Plan B between 48 and 120 hours after sex. Ella is less effective for people over 195 lbs/88 kg. More information about emergency contraception is available from Planned Parenthood. Pregnancy Testing and Counseling Students may call 541-346-2770 and speak with a triage nurse regarding pregnancy testing and related questions. Pregnancy testing can be done through a visit to a medical provider. Pregnancy Options UHS believes all people have the right to access essential, effective, safe, and evidence-based medical care. Individual healthcare decisions belong between a patient and their medical provider. When it comes to decisions regarding pregnancy, our medical providers will provide information, options, treatments, and referrals in support of their patients’ right to bodily autonomy and informed decision-making. UHS medical providers can discuss options with you regarding continuing or ending a pregnancy and will support you in making the right decision for your own body. If you are not sure how to proceed and want a safe place to discuss all options, call us and we will help. Information about Abortions Abortion is legal in Oregon ; it is your right. UHS is committed to keeping it that way. UHS is actively monitoring safe, accessible, trauma-informed abortion options in our community. If access becomes limited in Eugene, UHS is prepared to offer medication abortions at our clinic. However, at the current time, we are fortunate enough to be partnered with Planned Parenthood of Southwestern Oregon ’s health center a mile from campus that provides this service with more expertise and accessibility than we can. Planned Parenthood offers a telemedicine option for medication abortion, can provide in-clinic abortion procedures if this is a better option (or if medication abortion is not successful), has expert triage support for after-care, has access to patient financial support for abortions, and has providers and processes in place to do this important work incredibly well. For UO students seeking abortion, we recommend consulting Planned Parenthood's website . Additional Reproductive Resources Reproductive care is also available through several clinics in the Eugene-Springfield area. Check with your insurance carrier to find available providers. Call ahead to find out the location of the facility and the best transportation options or check UO Transportation Services . Planned Parenthood of Southwestern Oregon Northwest Abortion Access Fund PlanCPills.org Oregon Medical Group Chase Gardens Medical Center Oregon Medical Group West Eugene Medical Clinic Pacific Women's Center Women's Care White Bird Clinic Resources and Support Main menu Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.