Get Involved | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth Get Involved Are you interested in a health career, promoting health and well-being, or just want to get involved on campus? University Health Services (UHS) has opportunities! Whether you are interested in getting involved on a committee, volunteering or working as a health navigator, working as a peer health educator at UHS or in the Duck Nest, or looking for employment experience or practicum hours in a clinical environment, UHS could be a place for you to explore health and well-being at the UO. Student Health Advisory Committee The Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC) members bridge the gap between UO students and UHS. SHAC promotes public health policies and organizes events and outreach to meaningfully connect UHS with UO students. Throughout the years, SHAC has helped launch many initiatives, including the smoke-free campus policy, tours for the UHS building, installing a wellness vending machine in the EMU, and much more. Currently SHAC is working on projects around health equity, health navigation, built environment, and outreach. This organization is a great way for students to meet like-minded individuals, grow as leaders, and make a lasting impact on campus. Follow SHAC on Instagram and Facebook @UOSHAC, and check out SHAC on Engage for more information. SHAC Official Bylaws Back to Top Student Advisory Board for Counseling Services The Counseling Services Student Advisory Board enhances Counseling Services initiatives and supports its services through advocacy, feedback, and peer education. SAB members represent the voice of the student body and support us in providing the resources and services that are relevant to the UO community. For more info, go to counseling.uoregon.edu/sab . Back to Top Peer Wellness Facilitators at the Duck Nest Peer to peer health education is a successful way for students to seek out and navigate health and well-being on campus. Peer Wellness Facilitators at the Duck Nest help students access resources and create and implement student-driven wellness programs. Our Peer Wellness Facilitators also offer one-on-one support for UO students including help with navigating the resources in the Duck Nest space and throughout campus. Email the Peer Wellness Facilitators at the Duck Nest. Back to Top Peer Health Navigators The Peer Health Navigator program helps students navigate UHS and empowers them to become informed, active partners in their health. Peer Health Navigators gain experience in a clinical setting while helping guide patients through UHS and health care resources. Navigators also interact with health professionals, get volunteer hours, and gain health-related experience. Navigators also are available to help UO students when they are feeling ill, have been diagnosed with a communicable disease, or are looking for peer advice about what to do in public health situations. The Navigators can also connect students to resources on campus. Additionally, team members support UO immunization compliance. Email the Navigator supervisor for more information. Back to Top Oregon Public Health Corps Based on experience gained during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Oregon Public Health Corps (OPHC) helps local and state public health authorities prepare for future public health challenges and is a workforce pipeline program. OPHC provides the UO student workforce with a steppingstone to health and public health careers while providing a workforce pipeline to public health and health care. OPHC’s student workforce model works by funneling students’ desires to learn and eagerness to improve the health and well-being of fellow community members. OPHC members work closely with state and local officials on public health projects and provide services directly in the community. Email the Oregon Public Health Corps . Back to Top Student Worker Positions UHS is a great place for UO students looking for positions that offer experiential learning in various health settings. There are many ways students can apply their skills and interests in healthcare. Student employee roles include: Executive office Information services Lab and x-ray Oregon Public Health Corps Pharmacy Physical therapy Peer Wellness Facilitators at the Duck Nest Social media UHS Navigators UHS Navigators Find out about student positions on Handshake . Back to Top Practicum Experiences in Physical Therapy Services Physical Therapy Services offers a credited practicum each term (summer term excluded). This is a collaborative program between the Human Physiology Department and PT Services at University Health Services, which entails a 30-hour commitment to the department over the course of one (1) term, resulting in the accrual of one (1) credit through the Human Physiology Department. Students who are accepted into the program are paired with a physical therapist and observe all aspects of care, including the opportunity to interact with patients, ask/answer questions, and assist with non-treatment related tasks. In addition, each student will be responsible for identifying an area of interest to research and will prepare a short presentation for the treatment staff during their final week. Interested students must complete an application (available in PT Services) and return it to the PT Services Manager no later than Friday of week seven in the preceding term. For more information, go to the Natural Sciences website . Back to Top Student Health Advisory Committee Student Advisory Board for Counseling Services Peer Wellness Facilitators at the Duck Nest Peer Health Navigators Oregon Public Health Corps Student Worker Positions Practicum Experiences in Physical Therapy Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.