Billing Options | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Billing Options Students have three billing options for services and supplies provided at University Health Services: We can bill your health insurance plan. Any remaining balance will be billed to your student account (DuckWeb). You can opt to ‘Pay Today’ so no bill goes to your health insurance plan or student account. You can bill your student account for the entire cost of your visit. Bill Your Health Insurance Plan University Health Services can bill any U.S.-based health insurance plan. Students who wish to have the health services bill their health insurance must: Log in to the myUOHealth portal and complete the “Insurance Billing Consent Form” (found under the “Forms” tab). Log in to the myUOHealth portal and upload a copy of the front and back each health insurance card (under the “Upload” tab). Check with their health insurance plan to understand if/how the plan will cover services at University Health Services and with our partner labs. Insurance companies will independently process claims per the terms of the plan and pay the University Health Services directly for approved claims. Any balance remaining after insurance billing will be placed on your student account and typically takes between four to six weeks to process. Bills on your student account will not include any diagnostic information (they will only reference University Health Services). Health services does not mail bills. You can view your complete University Health Services bill by clicking on the “Statements” tab in the myUOHealth portal. If you receive lab services from one of our reference labs (outside lab services), you will receive a bill directly from them. They will mail bills to the address we provide them. It is important that you update your contact information with University Health Services so that we are providing the most accurate information to our partner labs. Explanation of Benefits (EOBs) are forms that your health insurance plan will send to the address they have on file. If you are over the age of 18, you can ask your health insurance plan to redirect your EOBs to the address of your choosing. Pay Today for Confidential Billing University Health Services accepts cash, Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover for all clinical services. Students who opt to Pay Today will be given a 15% discount for eligible health services charges. Paying for services at the time you receive them is the best way to maintain full confidentiality of your billing (no statement will be mailed out). Bill Your Student Account (DuckWeb) University Health Services charges can also be billed to students’ University of Oregon account. Bills on your student account will not include any diagnostic information (they will only reference health services). University Health Services does not mail bills. You can view your complete health services bill by logging into the myUOHealth portal and clicking on the "Statements" tab. Other Important Billing Information Lab Billing: If you receive lab services from one of our reference labs (e.g., we send your lab specimens to an outside lab partner for processing), you will receive a bill directly from them. They will mail bills to the address we provide them. It is important that you update your contact information with University Health Services so that we are providing the most accurate information to our partner labs. If you opt to "Pay Today" you can bypass this direct billing. Referrals: Students who are referred out for medical services not available at University Health Services or who seek medical or health services elsewhere in the community are fully responsible for all expenses. No Insurance or No Registered Insurance: After treatment, charges will appear on the UO student account, typically within two to five business days. If the student does not have insurance, they are responsible for paying these charges. If the student has insurance but has not registered their plan with University Health Services, health services will not courtesy bill the student’s plan. It is the student’s responsibility to submit the claim to their insurance. Students can obtain itemized billing statements to submit to their private insurance company by accessing their statement history through myUOHealth. The student’s insurance company will independently process the claim per the terms and conditions of the plan. If the insurance company approves the claim, they will send the student a reimbursement check. In the event an insurance company sends a reimbursement check to health services, the student’s UO account will be credited. Statements: Students may obtain an itemized statement from University Health Services by accessing their statement history through the myUOHealth portal. Oregon Contraceptive Care (CCare): In order to utilize CCare, the student must: Be eligible to use University Health Services by being enrolled as a student or by paying the mandatory fee if eligible; and Qualify for CCare by filing an application with University Health Service's CCare coordinator, located on the first floor of the building. Private insurance will first be billed and any balance remaining will be billed to CCare. Services not covered by either private insurance or CCare will be billed to the student’s account and the student is responsible to pay these charges. Student should consult with the CCare coordinator to learn what is covered and what is not. Workers Compensation: After treatment, with the proper paperwork and releases, University Health Services will submit the claim. If the claim is denied by the insurance company, the charges will be billed to the student’s UO account. The student is responsible for paying these charges. Motor Vehicle Accident Claims (MVA): Students must first register their MVA insurance policy or claim with University Health Services and complete a billing consent form. After treatment, health services will submit the student’s claim to their MVA insurance. If the claim is denied by the insurance company, the charges will be billed to the student’s account. The student is responsible for paying these charges. Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner (SANE): SANE exams are strictly confidential. The student will not be charged. No record of treatment will appear on the student’s UO student account, and no insurance reimbursement forms will be generated. Medicare: University Health Services is unable to provide services to Medicare beneficiaries. The student will need to utilize a Medicare provider in the community. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.