Health Insurance | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu UO Student Insurance In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Health Insurance Health Insurance All UO students are strongly encouraged to carry health insurance that is in-network with University Health Services and works well in the Eugene/Springfield area. University Health Services charges usual and customary fees, so it is important to make sure your health insurance plan will cover services received on campus. If you are not certain of your coverage, please call your health plan directly and ask questions. In addition, you can use the tools below to help you make an informed decision about your health insurance needs. Health Insurance Considerations Survey Tool UO SHBP Decisions-Making Flow Chart Understanding Insurance Insurance FAQs In-Network Plans Contact the Insurance Team Billing Options Oregon ContraceptiveCare UO Student Health Insurance Eligible students may purchase the Student Health Benefits Plan, a federally certified plan with excellent on-campus coverage and a nationwide network of providers. The UO offers this plan as a tool to help ensure affordable access to health care and to avoid unexpected medical bills or other health-related barriers to student success. LOW PREMIUMS, CO-PAYS, AND DEDUCTIBLES EXCELLENT MEDICAL AND PRESCRIPTION DRUG COVERAGE 24/7 EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE AND ASSISTANCE WORLDWIDE Student Health Benefits Plan Common Questions Why Have Insurance? All students are strongly encouraged to have health insurance that works well at University Health Services and in the Eugene/Springfield area. Healthcare can be expensive; having effective health insurance is an important way to help reduce and control your costs. If you have health insurance, reach out to your health insurance carrier in advance of coming to campus to see if the plan provides in-network coverage at University Health Services and in the surrounding area. Domestic students are not required to have health insurance, but the UO requires all international students and their eligible dependents to purchase the UO insurance, or obtain a waiver by having other insurance that meets the UO insurance requirements. Insurance Requirements What Will My Insurance Cover? The amount your plan covers depends on your specific plan. Most health insurance plans only cover some portion of your medical costs and every plan is different. Your plan may require you to pay a deductible, co-pay, and/or co-insurance. It is important that you understand how these will apply to each service and supply you receive. You must contact your health insurance plan directly to find out how your plan will work at UHS. Confirming your existing coverage directly with your health insurance carrier is important to help you avoid a surprise bill. The UO Student Health Benefits Plan covers most medically necessary care received at University Health Services and the normal deductible and co-pays are waived when you receive care on campus. Student Health Benefits Plan How Do I Use My Insurance at University Health Services? If you have non-UO health insurance, bring a copy of your insurance card to University Health Services to register your plan, or upload a copy of your card to myUOHealth. Be sure to complete the required consent forms (found within myUOHealth under the “Forms” tab) . Pharmacy and dental are in network with many insurance plans. For out-of-network medical care, we will courtesy bill your insurance company and then bill any residual balance to your student account. You are responsible for paying those charges. Login to myUOHealth Billing Options Resources UO Student Insurance In-Network Insurance Plans Understanding Health Insurance Insurance Compliance Billing Options Log in to myUOHealth If you have other questions about insurance, email UOstudentinsure@uoregon.edu . Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.