Missing Class Due to Illness or Injury | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Missing Class Due to Illness or Injury Information on handling your academic responsibilities when you are sick or injured. Getting sick or injured happens. Understanding the UO’s policy on course attendance and academic work and timely communication with your instructors is key to managing your responsibilities when you’re too sick or injured to attend class. Step One: Listen to your body and follow medical advice. Staying home when you are sick or injured is an important part of recovering faster so you can get back to your learning. It also can help reduce the spread of communicable illnesses on campus. Step Two: Consult your course syllabus on attendance policy, then communicate with your instructors about your absence and your plan to make up the work. Can I obtain a “sick note” from UHS? University Health Services does not routinely provide “sick notes” for students who miss class due to illness or injury. This policy is consistent with UHS’s commitment to maintain confidentiality, encourage appropriate use of healthcare resources, and support meaningful dialogue between instructors and students. It is also consistent with UO policy around course attendance. What is the UO’s policy on course attendance and academic work? The UO has adopted a “reason neutral” approach to absences from class and late work. Instructors set attendance requirements for each class based on minimum necessary attendance to ensure learning goals are achievable. This requirement will be different from class to class and should be clearly outlined in your syllabus. University policies on accessible education involving reasonable accommodations are an exception to the reason-neutral aspect of course attendance policy. Refer to the UO Course Attendance and Engagement policy and interpretation of the policy. There are also guidelines for instructors on understanding reasonable accommodations. Students are responsible for promptly notifying instructors about unanticipated absences caused by illness or injury, preferably prior to class time. You should follow the directions provided by your instructors in the course syllabus. While you don’t have to provide medical details, it is important to include information about estimated time out of class and how you plan to fulfill your academic responsibilities while working through your illness or injury. You can find more information on handling temporary illnesses and injuries through the Accessible Education Center. What if I need support communicating with my professor? The Accessible Education Center and Dean of Students Care and Advocacy Program are good resources. What if I need an extended absence or need to withdraw from a course? Students with an extended illness or significant disability should contact the Accessible Education Center for help and guidance. If needed, UHS can often provide letters for AEC to help support a need for academic accommodations or medically appropriate withdrawal from a term. Resources Accessible Education Center Guidance on Temporary Illnesses and Injuries Accessible Education Center Senate’s Course Attendance and Engagement Policy Course Attendance and Engagement Policy Interpretation from Office of the Provost Dean of Students Care and Advocacy Program Accessible Education Center Guidelines for Instructors on Reasonable Accommodations Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.