Campus Involvement | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Campus Involvement Faculty and Staff Resources Individuals Need a prescription refill, a spare set of tweezers, or a small package of Kleenex for your workstation? Look no further than the University Health Services Pharmacy. Current faculty and staff are now welcome to fill prescriptions as well as purchase over-the-counter (OTC) products from the pharmacy. Pharmacists are on site and available to assist you with picking the right product. Payment may be made with cash, check, or credit/debit cards. University Departments Departments are also able to order over-the-counter items through the pharmacy. We are able to charge index or account codes and are happy to send products via campus mail directly to your department. Campus Outreach and Education In pharmacy school, all student pharmacists are taught that our education enables us to do so much more than the traditional "count-pour-label-dispense" role associated with prescription delivery. Our pharmacists are true drug experts with detailed knowledge in a variety of areas—we strive to educate as well as medicate. Presentations to Campus Groups and Organizations Our pharmacists have participated in campus discussions, panels and interviews covering drug abuse, allergy treatment, travel medicine, and other pharmacy-related topics. We’re happy to work with student groups, employee organizations, and other campus programs to share our expertise. Mentoring Pre-Professional Students The pharmacy employs a number of student workers each year, many of whom go on to successful careers as medical professionals. The pharmacy counts a number of pharmacists, nurses, and even an optometrist or two among former student workers. For many students, this is their first chance to gain a hands-on introduction to the healthcare field and interact with patients. While positions are limited and reasonably competitive, we encourage interested students to stop by with a résumé for consideration. Affiliation with Professional Programs The pharmacy maintains affiliate institution agreements with Pacific University College of Pharmacy and Oregon State University College of Pharmacy. In this relationship, our pharmacists act as preceptors for professional students completing the final year of the Doctor of Pharmacy degree. We also invite representatives from each institution to campus each year to speak to our pre-pharmacy students about the admissions process and how to strengthen their application to the very competitive professional pharmacy programs. Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.