UO University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Front Page Care, Right on Campus Did you know that you can meet many of your health and mental health needs without leaving the University of Oregon campus? University Health Services (UHS) is conveniently located in the heart of campus and offers many services to UO students, including medical care, counseling services, well-being programming, and much more. UHS is a nationally accredited, multi-specialty healthcare organization. We have more than 150 staff whose primary focus is the health and well-being of UO students. Come check us out—we’re on campus at the corner of 13th Avenue and Agate Street. Medical Services Counseling Services Well-Being Charges Resources Immunization Requirements Insurance Get Involved Important Notice About Pertussis Lane County Public Health is investigating multiple cases of pertussis (whooping cough) in the community, including some at the University of Oregon. Read More... Missing Class Due to Illness or Injury Getting sick or injured happens. Understanding the UO’s policy on course attendance and academic work and timely communication with your instructors is key to managing your Read More... Experience Quality Care at UHS University Health Services undergoes many quality, certification, accreditation, and preparedness initiatives to ensure that patient care and employee safety are of the Read More... UHS Offers Physical Therapy University Health Services have a team of licensed physical therapists to help improve movement, strength, and function. Physical therapy uses a variety of interventions to Read More... See More Updates Contact University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene, OR 97403-1217 Phone: 541-346-2770 Fax: 844-965-9250 Map to Health Services Building Who Can Use Health Services? Cancellation Policy Sick Note Policy Provide Feedback to Us Outreach and Presentation Request Summer Term Hours Beginning Monday, June 24 Call first to schedule at 541-346-2770. M 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. T 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. W 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. TH 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. F 9:00 a.m.–4:30 p.m. S CLOSED SU CLOSED Closed on July 4 and September 4 Hours subject to change AFTER-HOURS SUPPORT Our after-hours advice nurse line is available for students when we are closed; call 541-346-2770. To connect directly to the three-digit, nationwide Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, call 988. Call Nurse Advice Line Call Mental Health Support and Crisis Line Emergencies Call 9-1-1 Other Care After Hours Services Acupuncture Acute Care Allergy and Asthma Colds, Flu, and Sore Throats Counseling Dental Diabetes Management Eating Disorders Endocrinology Faculty and Staff Services Immunization Compliance Immunizations Laboratory LGBTQIA+ Services Massage Mental Health Nurse Advice Line Pharmacy Physical Therapy Primary Care Sexual Assault Medical Support Sports Medicine STI Screening and Sexual Health Telemedicine Tobacco Cessation Transgender Care Travel Medicine X-ray There are currently no scheduled events. myUOHealth Use this portal to manage your immunization records, view education materials, register your insurance, and more. Please allow 24 hours after claiming your Duck ID before logging into the portal. myUOHealth Portal Wellness Center The Duck Nest wellness center helps you develop self-care and life-balance strategies related to stress, nutrition, physical activity, and general wellness. Duck Nest Important Information Fraud, Waste, Abuse Privacy Notice Feedback – We’d Like to Hear from You! Media Inquiry / Student Interview Request Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.