Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Primary Care Acute Care Sports Medicine Specialty Care Lab and X-ray Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Very effective HIV prevention medications are available through UHS for people at increased risk for HIV exposure. People living with HIV can live long, healthy lives with treatment. But to get treated you need to get diagnosed. Should I get tested for HIV? Yes. Knowing your HIV status gives you powerful information to keep yourself and your sex partners healthy. We recommend everyone get tested at least once. We recommend that anyone who has more than one sex partner or other risk factors get tested on a routine basis, every three to twelve months. Talk with your medical provider about a schedule that is right for you. What can I do to prevent HIV infection? Using barrier devices like condoms is an important way to reduce your risk for all STIs. Additionally, if you are at increased risk for HIV, we recommend you learn about PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis). If you have a known HIV exposure, you may be a candidate for PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis). How do you test for HIV? UHS tests for HIV infection in one of two ways: a cheek swab or a blood sample. We will talk to you about the best test option for you. How long after infection will a screening test turn positive? The HIV cheek swab test will detect most infections one month following infection and nearly all within three months. The HIV blood test detects some infections two weeks following infection and nearly all within six weeks. What is U=U? U=U is an important concept to understand about HIV infection and transmissibility. It stands for “undetectable equals untransmissible.” This means that a person living with HIV who is taking antiretroviral medications and has undetectable levels of virus in their blood stream is NOT able to transmit the HIV infection to their sex partners. More about PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) PrEP is a daily anti-HIV medication you can take which, along with regular condom use, can dramatically reduce your chances of becoming infected. This information below will give you a starting point, then speak with your medical provider for more information. Is PrEP right for me? Deciding to take PrEP means weighing out the risks versus the benefits. CDC PrEP Basics is a good place to start. The CDC's Risk Estimator Tool is a good way to assess your actual risk for HIV infection if you were to have sex with a person living with HIV. How do I get PrEP at UHS? Call us at 541-346-2770 and ask for an appointment in Primary Care to discuss PrEP. We will take it from there. More about PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) PEP stands for post-exposure prophylaxis. It means taking medication for 28 days to prevent HIV infection after a possible exposure. PEP is for emergency situations and is not a substitute for other HIV prevention methods, like condom use and PrEP. PEP must be started within 72 hours of possible exposure in order to be effective. Call UHS right away if you think you’ve been exposed or go to an urgent care or emergency department if it’s after hours. Every hour counts. The sooner you start PEP, the better. More resources about HIV, PrEP, PEP, and U=U For anonymous, free or reduced-cost testing, contact the Lane County Public Health Department or the HIV Alliance . For information, support, allyship, PEP, PrEP, and other care: HIV Alliance HIV information from CDC PrEP Information from CDC PEP Information from CDC U=U Information from National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease Main menu Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.