FAQs | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth FAQs General Questions Who is eligible to use University Health Services? University Health Services serves primarily University of Oregon students. All registered students must pay the health fee, which is part of the UO tuition and fees package. For more information about eligibility, including optional health services access fees, visit the "Charges" page . Do I need an appointment? Yes. Appointments can be made online through myUOHealth or by calling 541-346-2770. Students may make an appointment in person but are not guaranteed a same-day appointment. A nurse is always available to answer any questions or concerns. What is your cancellation policy? We realize that sometimes emergencies come up and your plans may change. If you cannot keep your University Health Services appointment, please call us as soon as possible at 541-346-2770. When you call, we will help you reschedule your appointment. If you cancel your appointment with less than two (2) hours’ notice (medical appointments) or 24 hours’ notice (physical therapy services, psychiatry, and dental appointments) or if you fail to show up for a scheduled appointment, you will be charged a no-show/late-cancellation fee. No-show/late-cancellation fees vary based on the type of appointment: Medical appointments: $25 Specialty medical appointments: $35 Psychiatry appointments (based on length and complexity): $35–$60 Physical therapy services appointments (includes massage/acupuncture): $35 Dental appointments: $35 Does University Health Services provide letters for emotional support/companion animals? University Health Services does not perform evaluations or provide letters for emotional support or companion animals. While we understand an animal can be a source of support, there is increasing recognition that advanced expertise is needed to assess if an animal is appropriate. Support letters would need to be obtained from an outside mental health professional with expertise in this type of assessment. If I'm sick and miss a class, can I get a sick note? University Health Services does not routinely provide “sick notes” for students who miss class due to illness or injury. This policy is consistent with UHS’s commitment to maintain confidentiality, encourage appropriate use of healthcare resources, and support meaningful dialogue between instructors and students. It is also consistent with UO policy around course attendance. Learn more about missing class due to illness or injury . How much will my visit cost? Find information about the cost for services . Will services (e.g., birth control, tests for sexually transmitted infections) show on the bill my parents receive? We can confidentially bill you, meaning services will not show up on your bill. If you seek insurance reimbursement, your insurance statement will have a detailed list of services rendered. If you pay cash for your appointment, your student account will not be billed. Learn more about our billing options. When will this appointment show up on my DuckWeb account? Health services charges are typically applied to your DuckWeb account within one week from the date of service and is listed as the "trans date" on the account. Student accounts allow an additional 30 days to pay the amount owed and lists the due date as the "effective date." Can my parent or partner come in with me? Yes, with patient permission. Signed consent may be necessary. Where can I park when going to University Health Services? We encourage students to walk or bike to University Health Services. There are many bicycle racks near our entrances. Students can also ride Lane Transit District buses free of charge with their UO ID card. We are located one block south of LTD's EmX bus line. Get off the EmX at the Agate Street station. If you are driving, there is limited on-street, metered parking around the health services building. Parking can be difficult, so we ask that you come early in order to leave yourself enough time to find a spot and avoid parking in spots with restricted time (i.e., 30-minute meters) as this may not allow you enough time for your treatment. In cases of serious injury or impaired mobility, we recommend having a friend or family member drop you off and pick you up. How do I talk to a nurse after University Health Services is closed? If you are in need of medical care or advice during the times we are closed, simply call the main phone number (541-346-2770) to speak with a triage nurse. I can't register for classes. Why is there a hold on my account? The University of Oregon requires that all incoming students be immunized against a number of infectious diseases and complete a tuberculosis (TB) screening questionnaire. A hold will be placed on the registration process of students who are non-compliant with measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) requirements. For international students, the hold will be placed on registration prior to their first term at the University of Oregon. For domestic students who are US citizens, the hold will be placed on registration for their second term.In addition, new international students must complete an insurance compliance form prior to UO course registration . Telemedicine What is a telemedicine visit? A telemedicine visit is a private interaction between you and your University Health Services clinician using Zoom real-time electronic audio-visual technology. If you do not have access to a laptop or smart phone that can add video, or if you are not comfortable with video, your appointment may be able to go forward using telephone only. Just like an in-person visit, you will first be “checked in” by a medical assistant over the phone. This will include going over the reason for your visit, reviewing required forms for your visit including the telemedicine consent to treat form, reviewing your current medications and your preferred pharmacy, working with you to check your temperature, pulse, and any other vital signs. You will then be provided with a confidential, HIPAA-compliant Zoom link. At the time of your appointment, you will connect via the Zoom link with your clinician for your visit. Please plan to be in a private area for this appointment. A telemedicine visit is documented in your medical record and billed to your insurance just like an in-person visit would be. What are the limitations of telemedicine? Nothing can fully replace a person-to-person visit in an examination room, and a telemedicine visit has known limitations that are important to understand. First, there is always the possibility for technical glitches that could result in incomplete transfer of information or lack of full communication. It is important to communicate if you are not experiencing adequate quality sound and video so we can address the issue immediately. Second, since a full physical examination cannot be conducted and diagnostic testing performed, your clinician’s ability to fully assess and correctly diagnose some medical conditions may be limited. If needed, your clinician will discuss this with you and come up with a plan for how best to care for you. If you are in the Eugene area, you may be asked to come in for an in-person visit, or to drop by the lab for diagnostic testing. If you are outside the Eugene area, you may be asked to seek care with a community clinician or go to an urgent care clinic or local emergency department for appropriate care. Is there any type of visit not allowed via telemedicine? University Health Services clinicians have decided that any visit requiring a visual examination of a sensitive body part (breasts, buttocks, genitals) is not appropriate for audio/visual platform like Zoom. In these circumstances, we will arrange an alternative plan to make sure we care for you appropriately. Is my telemedicine visit confidential and secure? We have made every effort to ensure that your telemedicine visit is private and confidential, just as an in-person visit would be. It is important to know that all existing laws regarding privacy and security of your health information and copies of your medical record apply to this telemedicine visit and the audio and video information transmitted and received as part of this service. Any information you disclose during your telemedicine visit will be protected by the same privacy laws and regulations as an in-person visit. Having said that, as with any technology, there may be unanticipated technical glitches that could affect the privacy and confidentiality of your visit; we will work through those with you, if they occur. Will my telemedicine visit be recorded and stored? No. Like an in-person visit, there will be no recording of your conversation, but your clinician will certainly document your conversation, the physical findings, the assessment, and your care plan in your medical chart. If you and your clinician feel a need to document images in your medical record, alternative arrangements will be made to download those images to your patient portal. Can I refuse or change my mind about a telemedicine visit? You have the right at refuse a telemedicine visit or withdraw your consent for a telemedicine visit at any time. Doing so will not affect your right to future care at University Health Services. You may also withdraw consent to extra personnel participating in telemedicine health services, but if such personnel are necessary to assist with providing the services, the telemedicine visit may have to stop. In these circumstances, we will work with you to come up with alternative arrangements to best meet your care needs. Immunizations Is the flu vaccine going to give me the flu or make me sick? No, a flu shot cannot cause flu illness. The viruses contained in flu shots are inactivated (killed), which means they cannot cause infection. Flu vaccine manufacturers kill the viruses used in the flu shot during the process of making the vaccine, and batches of flu vaccine are tested to make sure they are safe. Some of the most commonly reported symptoms that people experience after receiving a flu shot are: soreness, redness, swelling at the site of the injection, fever, aches, fatigue, hoarseness, cough, or a headache. These symptoms are usually minor and are limited to a couple of days. Insurance Do I have to have health insurance? Domestic Students: The University of Oregon does not require domestic (US-based) students to have health insurance and it is not required to access care at University Health Services. International Students: The University of Oregon requires that international students have health insurance that meets established criteria. For this reason, all international students are automatically enrolled in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan and billed each term that they are eligible, unless they have an approved insurance waiver on file. More information about the international student health insurance requirement is available on the Insurance Requirements page. How do I sign up for the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? Learn more about our student insurance plan . Does University Health Services bill insurance for services and supplies? Yes, UHS bills insurance. It is very important that you check with your health insurance plan so you understand if and how your plan will cover services at University Health Services. How much will it cost to be seen at University Health Services? That depends. You can find estimated costs on the Costs for Services page. We try to list as many costs as we can, but some things won't be listed because we don't control the cost (like lab work done through an outside lab). Our fees are very similar to what you will find at community-based healthcare providers. Please note that our list prices do not take into account any discounts that may apply. How can I pay for services? You have options. We can bill your health insurance plan. Any remaining balance will be billed to your student account (DuckWeb) You can opt to "Pay Today" so no bill goes to your health insurance plan or student account. You can bill your student account for the entire cost of your visit. Visit the Billing Options page for more details. Do I need to do anything if I want health services to bill my health insurance plan? Yes. We can bill any US-based health insurance plan (both in and out of network). You need to: Complete the Insurance Billing Consent Form (found in the MyUOHealth student portal) authorizing us to do so on your behalf. Upload a copy of the font and back of each of your health insurance cards to the portal. Check with your health insurance plan to understand if/how they will cover services at University Health Services and with our partner labs. If University Health Services bills my insurance, will I have to pay any portion of the bill? That depends. Most health insurance plans only cover some portion of your medical costs and every plan is different. Also, there is a lot to understand about how insurance billing works. Your plan may require you to pay a deductible, co-pay and/or co-insurance. It is important that you understand how these will apply to each service and supply you receive. You must contact your health insurance plan directly to find out how your plan will work at University Health Services. More information about insurance billing can be found on the Understanding Health Insurance page. Will a bill or other statement go to my family's address? Maybe. Any health services balance remaining after insurance billing will be placed on your student account and typically takes four to six weeks to process. Bills on your student account will not include any diagnostic information (they will only reference University Health Services). Health services does not mail bills. You can view your complete health services bill by clicking on the "Statements" tab of the MyUOHealth portal . If you receive lab services from one of our reference labs (outside lab services), you will receive a bill directly from them. They will mail bills to the address we provide them. It is important that you update your contact information with health services so that we are providing the most accurate information to our partner labs. Explanation of Benefits (EOBs) are forms that your health insurance plan will send to the address they have on file. If you are over the age of 18, you can ask your health insurance plan to redirect your EOBs to the address of your choosing. More information about insurance billing can be found on the Understanding Health Insurance page. If a bill or EOB does go to my family's address, what will it say? Bills and EOBs are two different things. Bills are sent by the healthcare provider or lab and include very detailed information about your specific diagnosis and treatment/testing. Anyone viewing medical bills would have a very clear sense of your diagnosis and treatment plan. Explanation of Benefits (EOBs) are sent by your health insurance plan and have much less detail. EOBs do show where you were seen and a general descriptor of services (e.g. "physical therapy" or "lab work"). You have control over where bills and EOBs are sent and should proactively make sure they are going to the address you want them to. To control where bills are sent, make sure the address we have on file is accurate. To control where your EOBs are sent, contact your health insurance plan. How do I figure out if my health insurance plan will work at University Health Services? You will need to do a little investigating. PRIOR to accessing services, you need to contact your health insurance plan and ask them questions about how your coverage will work at University Health Services and with our partner healthcare providers (Quest Diagnostics and McKenzie Willamette Hospital). Health insurance is complicated. For more information on how health insurance works, visit the Understanding Health Insurance page. We highly recommend you review these materials and call your health insurance plan so you are in a good position to make informed decisions about your healthcare and to avoid surprise bills. If you still have questions, call our Insurance Liaison (541-346-2452). What if I don't have health insurance? We are here to help you. Our insurance liaison can work with you to figure out the best options for you. This might include helping you determine if you are eligible for the Oregon Health Plan (Medicaid program) or exploring enrollment in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan. University Health Services also offers discounted rates to students who opt to self pay for services and supplies. The Health Insurance section of this website offers more information about insurance coverage options. Laboratory How do I get my lab results? You can get the results of your laboratory testing from the ordering clinician or the nurse. Can I get lab work done at health services for an outside physician or nurse practitioner? Unfortunately, we are not able to accept outside orders at this time. Your physician or nurse practitioner may be able to coordinate care with one of our providers. There are also other laboratories that can take outside orders. Please stop by our lab for a copy of the list. We are happy to consult with you on local alternatives. Can I order lab work myself? Why do I need a doctor's order? Oregon regulations governing laboratories allow for only limited self-referred testing. At this time UHS Lab does not allow self-referred testing. STI testing: What tests do you do? How much do they cost? Turnaround timeline? Common tests for STIs include chlamydia, gonorrhea, herpes, HIV, and syphilis. The UHS laboratory offers onsite testing for chlamydia, gonorrhea, herpes, and HIV. Find pricing under our costs for services . With insurance, your out-of-pocket cost may differ from our listed price. Testing done at the UHS laboratory has a 24- to 72-hour turnaround timeline. A sample for syphilis testing can be collected at our laboratory and sent to our reference lab partner. The cost for this testing will depend on your insurance provider. If you are concerned about pricing for any lab work, it is best to call your insurance provider and ask about covered services. Why do I have additional charges on my account for lab work? The cost of laboratory testing is not covered by the health fee; however, the fee does allow us to offer common laboratory tests at a reduced cost in comparison to the outside community. How expensive is testing at University Health Services compared to testing in the community? Testing performed at University Health Services is significantly less expensive than testing in the community. Our goal is to use the student health dollars to leverage cost savings. Do you offer pre-employment, internship, and travel drug screening? We offer only medically indicated drug screening. We can offer students a list of service providers in the community. Can I get a copy of my lab results? Yes. Check with the clinician who ordered the tests or with the Medical Records office. What do you do for people who faint or are needle-phobic? We have a variety of services and solutions to help those with needle anxiety or a history of fainting. Our phlebotomy room is equipped for reclining, a “therapeutic touch” nurse is available to work with anxious patients, and we have a staff of phlebotomists with almost 100 years of combined experience. Can you tell what type of blood I have? If you’re interested in your blood type, your medical provider can order an ABO/Rh screen. There may be an additional cost associated with this testing. Please consult with your insurance provider if you are concerned about costs. Can I write and use my arm after a blood draw? Yes. We attempt to collect blood samples from students’ non-dominant side if possible. The phlebotomist will ask you to keep the bandage on for approximately 30 minutes to minimize post-phlebotomy bleeding or bruising. Phlebotomy should not interfere with any homework or note taking. Do I need to make an appointment for lab work? No. We see students in the lab on a first come, first serve basis. At times there can be a wait for phlebotomy or specimen collection. If your class schedule is tight, check with the lab for optimal times. What are fasting labs? How long do I have to fast? Your clinician will order “fasting labs” for certain tests for which eating or drinking can affect the interpretation of the results. Not all labs require fasting, so ask your ordering physician or nurse practitioner. Fasting means nothing by mouth except for water for typically 8-12 hours. For cholesterol or lipid testing, fasting for 12 hours is ideal. Is it OK to work out or lift weights after my blood draw? The phlebotomist will ask you to keep the bandage on for approximately 30 minutes to minimize post-phlebotomy bleeding or bruising. It also helps if you carry book bags, backpacks, purses, or heavy items in your other arm for that time. Medical Records How do I obtain a copy of my medical records Please complete the release of information form. Once you have completed this form in its entirety, submit it through myUOHealth or bring a paper copy to the front desk of health services. Musculoskeletal Clinic How long are appointments? A standard appointment with a physician is 15-30 minutes for a recent injury that has occurred in the last ten days. If you are also seen by the athletic trainer, need x-rays, or splinting or bracing, then your appointment could be longer. Usually these appointments occur in the afternoon. If the injury is older than this, you will scheduled at a different time for a longer consult. Prices will vary accordingly. What services are available? The primary function of the clinic is to treat students with recent musculoskeletal injuries, and provide diagnostic information from the mechanism of injury, physical exam findings, and on-site X-ray services if needed. Patients who have experienced a recent suspected Sports Related Concussion (SRC) are also seen and evaluated using up to date concussion guidelines and management. The clinic consists of a physician with Sports Medicine experience and an athletic trainer. If a brace, splint, crutches, or casting are needed, our experienced staff can provide these depending on the severity of the injury. Referrals can be generated for physical therapy, acupuncture, and massage . In addition, if further evaluation is needed with ultrasound, MRI, or to see an orthopedic surgeon, we can help facilitate a timely local referral. What should I wear? Wear comfortable exercise clothing such as a T-shirt, shorts, and sneakers. Depending on your condition, you may be asked to change into a gown or shorts for proper evaluation and treatment. What if I participate in University of Oregon Club Sports? The staff in the Musculoskeletal Clinic work in a collaborative manner with the graduate athletic trainers in Club Sports (https://clubsports.uoregon.edu/training-insurance). It is a priority that we provide you with a plan for a safe return to athletics. How do I make an appointment? Though walk-in appointments can sometimes be accommodated, it is ideal to call our reception staff at 541-346-2770 to arrange for an appointment. Oregon Contraceptive Care (CCare) What is CCare? Find information on our CCare page . Where can I go for my contraceptives if I am not eligible for CCare? You can still come to University Health Services for contraceptives. Our pharmacy offers consultation (for a fee) for oral contraceptives and the hormone patch that can be prescribed by our pharmacist . The cost of the prescription is additional. Free sexual health supplies are available for all students through the University Health Services' Protection Connection program . To ensure students have access to the supplies they need, Protection Connection maintains several Hot Spots across campus, including at University Health Services. Contraceptive barriers include internal and a variety of external condoms. Pharmacy I'm new to the UO and need to have prescriptions transferred to health services. What's the best way to do this? There are several options. If you have a refillable prescription at another pharmacy, just bring your bottle or receipt to University Health Services Pharmacy and we will transfer it for you. You may also bring a written prescription from your doctor or have your doctor's office phone/fax a new prescription to us. You may also choose to transition care to one of our clinicians and have them write your prescriptions. What methods of payment do you accept? We accept cash, check, or credit/debit (Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express), or we can bill your student account.  We are unable accept Campus Cash. Do I have to fill my prescriptions at the UO pharmacy? We are happy to fill any prescription from eligible students, but you are not required to fill at the University Health Services Pharmacy. A list of community pharmacies can be found online or by contacting your insurance provider. Physical Therapy, Massage, and Acupuncture How long are appointments? A standard appointment with a physical therapist is 45 minutes. Your session may be shorter or longer according to your specific needs. Prices will vary accordingly. Do I need a referral for physical therapy? No, you can seek the services of a physical therapist without a prescription from a physician or nurse practitioner. However, your insurance provider might require a referral to cover your expenses. University Health Services offers same-day appointments with sports medicine doctors, who can assess your problem and refer to our physical therapy department. Call the number on the back of your insurance card to determine your insurance benefits. You are responsible for understanding your own insurance benefits prior to scheduling an appointment. What should I wear? Wear comfortable exercise clothing such as a T-shirt, shorts, and sneakers. Depending on your condition, you may be asked to change into a gown or shorts for proper evaluation and treatment. If you are being evaluated for running or orthotics, please bring athletic shoes. Where do I schedule massage? Massage can be scheduled by calling our front desk at 541-346-4401 or stopping by the department. We are located on the third floor of the University Health Services building. Can I be seen today? You may be able to come in for a regular appointment on the same day you contact us, if there is an opening in the schedule. I have a massage therapy appointment. What can I expect? This is a highly professional setting. The utmost care will be taken to ensure your comfort and modesty is maintained. If you have any questions or concerns, please speak with your therapist. How does acupuncture work? For the last 3,000 years, acupuncture has been used to promote wellness and treat a wide spectrum of health problems. It is the longest continuous form of medicine. It developed over hundreds of years of observation (trial and error).  Over centuries, people noticed that adding heat, pressure, massage, and needles to certain points on the body relieved pain and illness. It was particularly put to the test during war time. It is currently being used by the U.S. military for battlefield injuries, as well as other ailments including PTSD. Each acupuncture point has a designated function. For example, there are specific points, or groups of points, for treating headaches, back pain, congested sinuses, allergies, knee pain, depression, lack of concentration, etc. The World Health Organization (WHO) recognizes acupuncture as suitable for treating more than 200 common clinical disorders. Do you need to “believe” in acupuncture? You do not need to follow a belief system for acupuncture to work. Acupuncture is used successfully with animals in veterinary medicine. As far as we know animals don’t have an opinion either way about acupuncture. Yet, beliefs are powerful. They work towards all types of medicine, therapy, and surgery. This explains why the “placebo effect” may influence the outcome of all therapies. Is acupuncture painful? Everyone experiences acupuncture differently. Sometimes patients don’t notice the needles at all. Other times it is momentarily painful. Each patient is treated individually and in a way that is gentle, therapeutic, and effective. How many acupuncture treatments are necessary to see results? Like most forms of care, acupuncture is best as a series of treatments. It depends on the condition being treated, but 5-10 treatments is a good, general rule. Are the needles sterile? Sterile, stainless-steel needles are used. We only use disposable, single-use needles at University Health Services. Sports Medicine How long are appointments? An appointment with a physician for an acute or recent injury that is less than 10 days is usually 20 minutes. This may be longer if X-ray, ultrasound, or splinting and casting is required. We try to reserve many appointments to accommodate the student who may need to be seen the same day. Some appointments for chronic problems or complicated injuries can be longer, especially if the injury has been present for more than 10 days. Can I be seen today? We structure our sports medicine clinic’s schedule to accommodate the student who may need to be seen the same day for an acute injury. We cannot always arrange this; however, we have recently increased the number of providers in sports medicine to help reach this need. The best way to schedule an appointment is to call 541-346-2770. We are not currently scheduling online appointments. What should I wear? If weather allows, wear comfortable clothing such as a T-shirt, shorts, and athletic shoes. Depending on your condition, you may be asked to change into a gown or shorts for proper evaluation and treatment. If you are being evaluated for a running injury, please bring your running shoes. What if I will need crutches or a splint/brace? After your evaluation with the physician, if it is recommended to use crutches then we can fit you for a rental pair from the clinic. If you need a customized splint, boot, brace, or prefabricated splint, we can fit you for this before your departure from the clinic. What if I am not in an organized sport or don’t consider myself an athlete? Though we treat all levels of athletes, we treat all eligible students who have been injured. You do not have to be an athlete. We see all types of students with all sorts of ailments. Some do not play competitive sports, but deal with acute or chronic injuries from exercise or training. UO Student Health Benefits Plan This FAQ provides a highlight of some key information about the UO Student Health Benefits Plan (UO SHBP). For more detailed information and complete plan rules, refer to the Student Guide . Why does the UO offer a student health insurance plan? Easy access to affordable, high-quality healthcare is important. Studies show that students’ physical and emotional well-being directly affects their academic performance and progression to graduation. As part of the UO’s commitment to student success, we offer this plan to ensure all students have access to quality health insurance at reasonable rates. The plan is not motivated by profit; it is a self-funded plan that exists solely for the benefit of UO students. What does the UO Student Health Benefits Plan cover? UO SHBP is a comprehensive medical and prescription drug plan. Coverage includes primary care, preventative services, hospital services, urgent and emergency services (including ambulances), X-ray, lab, nurse advice line (24/7), counseling and other mental health services, and more. See the Summary of Benefits and Student Guide for full coverage details. This plan does not include vision or dental coverage (beyond pediatric benefits, which terminate once a student turns 19). Can I add adult dental coverage? The UO SHBP does not include adult dental coverage for US-based students. However, students may decide to enroll in a stand-alone dental plan that would work in the Eugene area. The UO does not endorse any specific dental plan, but PacificSource does offer an individual dental plan which students may opt to enroll in separately from the UO SHBP. To learn more about a stand-alone dental plan through PacificSource, visit their website . Is the UO Student Health Benefits Plan compliant with the Affordable Care Act? Yes. UO SHBP is federally certified through the US Department of Health and Human Services as Minimum Essential Coverage (MEC). This means the plan satisfies the individual coverage requirement of the Affordable Care Act. To find out more information about how to satisfy the federal tax reporting requirements for health insurance, go to our federal tax information page. Where does the UO Student Health Benefits Plan work? The UO SHBP offers nationwide coverage through First Health and First Choice (in Alaska), both of which are included in our standard Navigator Network. In addition, it provides global coverage, including emergency evacuation and repatriation. Students should review the in-network providers in their home area to understand how the coverage will work while at school and at home. The plan covers 100 percent of most services at University Health Services*. In addition to the standard Navigator Network, the plan includes a UO Exclusive Network for enhanced coverage in the Eugene area. When students see providers in the UO Exclusive Network, they receive an additional discount from the standard Navigator Network. *Some services at UHS are not covered benefits (e.g., massage therapy, dental services for domestic students, etc.). If a service is deemed as not medically necessary, it will not be covered by the plan (e.g., a student needs a blood test as part of an employment or study abroad requirement; not because of a medical diagnosis). Some services at UHS are provided by a partner entity, such as Quest Diagnostics or DonJoy Global. If a student receives a service through these partners, the student will receive a bill directly from that partner entity and normal deductibles and co-pays and/or co-insurance will apply. Students are encouraged to ask questions about services they plan to receive ahead of time (at UHS and any other provider) to help them make an informed decision about their care. Help me understand the tiers in the Plan Summary Document. Does each tier represent a separate plan or are all tiers included? The UO SHBP provides three tiers of in-network providers (reflected as three separate columns on the Plan Summary document). All three in-network tiers are included in the UO SHBP. The standard network is called the Navigator Network (reflected in the purple column). The Navigator Network includes providers in the Eugene area as well as our national, wrap network of providers. The UO added extra benefits in the Eugene area through the creation of our UO Exclusive Network (shown in the green column) as well as enhanced coverage at University Health Services (shown in the orange column). This means that when students are in the Eugene area they have even lower out-of-pocket expenses when they access care through University Health Services or the UO Exclusive Network, but they can always use the Navigator Network. That being noted, the plan is specifically designed to work wherever the student is geographically located, so, if they’re home for a break or doing an internship in another state, the plan can generally be expected to work wherever their studies and travels may take them. Students and families can use the PacificSource website (www.pacificsource.com/uo) to explore in-network providers before purchasing the plan (and afterward to help ensure they are seeking care from an in-network provider, to maximize their benefits). As a reminder, the “Out-of-Network Providers” column (the last, blue column) is simply showing what students can expect in terms of coverage if they do NOT seek care from one of the many in-network providers. Who is allowed to enroll in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? The student plan is available to individuals who meet the following three requirements: (1) Admitted , meaning a student who has gone through a formal admissions process to study at the University of Oregon in pursuit of a degree. This is verified by reference to the University of Oregon's Office of the Registrar's records indicating that the student has a level code equal to "UG," "LW," or "GR" (excluding post-doc scholars, in accordance with ORS 350.370) and is not enrolled in a fully online program (e.g., PSYO). AND (2) Domestic Students , meaning a student who is admitted to the University of Oregon and is not an international exchange/sponsored student, American English Institute student, or other student who has a visa type of J or F, or other legal non-immigrant status that is approved by the Division of Global Engagement. AND (3) Meets coverage criteria , meaning a student who meets one or more of the following during a coverage period (listed in the section below titled “Effective Date of Coverage”): Enrolled in one or more university courses and remain enrolled in those courses through the compliance deadline; or Admitted to and actively enrolled in a university-approved study abroad program as designated by Global Education Oregon; or Approved by Student Services and Enrollment Management to take medical leave from the university and meet the criteria defined in the section titled “Medical Leave” below; or Meets standards for qualifying post-baccalaureate students, which means individuals who have been post-baccalaureate students for two years or less and who are enrolled in a minimum of 12 credits per academic term during those two years. Who is not allowed to enroll in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? The following are examples of individuals who are not eligible for the UO SHBP: Those who are not formally admitted to the University of Oregon in a degree-seeking status (for example, individuals taking only Community Education Program classes) Dual enrolled students who are only taking courses at Lane Community College Dependents of domestic students Post-baccalaureate students who are enrolled in less than 12 credits per term and/or have been a post-bacc student for more than two years Students who are enrolled in exclusively online programs (e.g., ABAO, IMCO, PSYO, SPMO) Are UO students required to enroll in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? Domestic Students: Enrollment in the UO SHBP is optional for domestic (US-based) students. This means domestic students must complete an enrollment form during their first eligible term each year. For example, if a student is attending the UO in the fall term, they must use the fall open enrollment window. Students must take action to re-enroll each plan year; there is no auto re-enrollment. International Students: Enrollment in the UO SHBP is mandatory for international students. International students are automatically enrolled in the plan and billed each term that they are eligible, unless they have an approved insurance waiver on file. How do domestic students enroll in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? Domestic students must enroll in the UO SHBP during their first eligible term or semester each plan year. For most students, this means they must complete the enrollment process during the fall term open enrollment window. Visit enroll.pacificsource.com/uo Create an account (if you already have an account with PacificSource, you will use that login information) Complete an enrollment application The UO will bill you directly for premiums, to your DuckWeb account Download the myPacificSource app to access digital ID card, find providers, and more Note: If a student will have other health insurance coverage in addition to the UO SHBP, they must register their other plan information at the time of enrollment in the UO SHBP to properly set up coordination of benefits. I have other health insurance that I already know isn’t going to work at the UO and in the Eugene area. Why do I need to provide that information to PacificSource? When students are covered by more than one health insurance plan, they are required to provide that information so that PacificSource can set up what is called “Coordination of Benefits.” Even if the other plan isn’t going to work well on campus or in the Eugene area (e.g., an HMO or limited PPO plan), the two plans will work together to coordinate coverage of medical bills for the student. According to Oregon state law, the UO SHBP will take an always secondary position, except when the other insurance is Medicaid/Medicare. This means that in most cases, a healthcare provider will bill the student’s primary (other) coverage first. That plan will pay (or not) according to their benefits. Then the healthcare provider will send the remaining claim to PacificSource and the UO SHBP will pay as the secondary payer. This is simply the way claims processing works in the US. When a student doesn’t register their other coverage (or fails to present both insurance cards to a healthcare provider), it will be discovered during the claims processing and will result in a denial of payment and/or other delays. Is re-enrollment in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan automatic? No. Each year, students who want to be enrolled in the UO SHBP and meet the eligibility criteria must submit an enrollment form prior to the close of the fall term open enrollment. If any student misses the enrollment deadline, they will not be enrolled in the plan. How long does coverage last under the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? When students enroll in the UO SHBP, they are making a decision for the rest of the plan year. This means that students who continue to meet the eligibility criteria must stay on the plan for the rest of the plan year. The only exception is for students who meet the termination rules under “qualifying events” or otherwise lose eligibility. 2024-25 Annual Coverage Dates: UO students: September 15, 2024–September 14, 2025 UO law students: August 10, 2024–August 9, 2025 How much does the UO Student Health Benefits Plan cost? The total annual premium for the 2024–25 plan year is $3,516. This breaks down to $1,172 per term or $1,758 per semester (for law students). For the purposes of comparing to other plans, this equates to $293 per month. How do students pay for the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? Premiums are billed to student accounts (DuckWeb) each term (at the beginning of fall, winter, and spring terms). Note: Law students are billed two times (at the beginning of the fall and spring semesters). Students are responsible for paying their bill before the Compliance Deadline each term. If the payment is late, students will be charged a $100 late payment fee and an academic hold will be placed on their account (which means they will not be able to add/drop classes, get transcripts, etc.). Coverage extends through the end of summer term automatically for any students enrolled in the plan during spring term/semester. How do students get their insurance card? Download the PacificSource app to get a mobile ID card (digital). If preferred, students can request a printed card directly from PacificSource . How do students use the UO Student Health Benefits Plan? Before receiving services from any healthcare provider, find out if that provider is in-network and if/how the UO SHBP will cover costs for that type of service. This can be done in a few different ways: Call the PacificSource Customer Service Line: 855-274-9814 Use the website to lookup providers and benefits: pacificsource.com.uo Download and use the mobile app: pacificsource.com/mobile/ Reminder: The plan covers 100 percent of most services at University Health Services. Students should be prepared to present their PacificSource ID card (digital or printed) to each healthcare provider they see. It is important that students who are covered by more than one plan also present their other insurance card(s) to ensure proper billing. If necessary, students should update their address and contact information with PacificSource to ensure mailings are sent to the most accurate address. Can a student enroll in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan mid-year? Not typically. Students may only enroll mid-year when they provide proof that they meet very specific criteria: New students: Students may enroll in the UO SHBP during their first eligible term/semester each plan year. This means that a student who is new to the UO during winter term can enroll in the plan during the winter term open enrollment window. Qualifying event: Students who experience an involuntary loss of other qualifying health insurance coverage may be eligible to enroll in the UO SHBP mid-year (during the next term/semester open enrollment window). There are strict rules in place for joining mid-year. Students are encouraged to contact the UO SHBP team (call 541-346-2832 or email uostudentinsure@uoregon.edu ) as soon as they realize they may lose other coverage to discuss their enrollment options. What if a student no longer needs the plan. Can they drop the coverage mid-year? Not typically. When students enroll in the UO SHBP, they are making an election for the entirety of that plan year. There are limited circumstances in which a student’s coverage may be voluntarily terminated early. If a student becomes newly eligible for and acquires other qualifying health insurance, they may request a mid-year drop and must meet the criteria below in addition to submitting all necessary documentation prior to published deadlines. Refer to the Student Guide for complete rules. The new coverage was not available to the student prior to the Effective Date of the current coverage period; and The new coverage is available for the student due to a qualifying event, including marriage, new employment (for them or a family member who claims them as a dependent), or new qualification for a government- or state-funded health plan. Please note that a student voluntarily enrolling in alternative coverage through the insurance exchange or a parent changing their plan during employment-based open enrollment are not qualifying events. What happens to coverage if a student loses eligibility mid-year? If a student loses eligibility for the plan, they will be terminated from the UO SHBP, sometimes retroactively. It is very important that students understand their eligibility status every term/semester and have a plan for other coverage for after their eligibility ends (for example, if a student graduates in December, they will not be eligible for the plan beyond the fall term). Each term, the team checks eligibility for all enrolled students through the Compliance Deadline. If a student is found to be ineligible, their coverage is retro-terminated back to the beginning of that coverage period and any claims incurred are denied. It is critical that students plan ahead regarding their ongoing health insurance needs so they have adequate time to find alternative coverage. The UO does not endorse any other specific plan. What happens to coverage if a student does not take summer classes or graduates in the spring? Any student who is eligible for and covered by the UO SHBP for the spring term will automatically be covered through the end of that plan year (August 9 for law students, September 14 for all other students). Still have questions? We are here to help. UO Student Health Benefits Team 541-346-2832 uostudentinsure@uoregon.edu General Questions Telemedicine Immunizations Insurance Laboratory Medical Records Musculoskeletal Clinic Oregon Contraceptive Care (CCare) Pharmacy Physical Therapy, Massage, and Acupuncture Sports Medicine Student Health Benefits Plan Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.