Medical Care | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Primary Care Acute Care Sports Medicine Specialty Care Lab and X-ray Medical Care Your Medical Home Away from Home Taking on the world begins with taking care of yourself. Managing your health and wellness (and learning to navigate the world of healthcare) is essential to allow you to engage with all the opportunities the University of Oregon has to offer. Medical services welcomes all UO students to call or drop in if they have a question or concern that needs a medical professional. We provide comprehensive primary care services as well as acute care, sports medicine, psychiatry, gynecology, and endocrinology. Medical Services Anti-Oppression Intention Primary Care Healthcare can feel overwhelming at times, and our primary care team is here to help. If you need to establish care or have symptoms you need help managing, this is your starting point. If you need preventative care, screening tests, or immunizations, this is your starting point. If you aren’t sure where to start, this is your starting point. Primary Care Acute Care Illnesses and injuries can be unpredictable. If you are sick or injured and need help today, the Acute Care Clinic is here to help. If you are experiencing cold and flu-like symptoms, nausea or vomiting, rashes, skin injuries, or other concerns, contact us. Appointments can be scheduled online through the myUOHealth portal, or made by phone. Acute Care Clinic Sports Medicine The Sports Medicine clinic treats students with musculoskeletal and sports-related injuries. We are all athletes. Sports-related injuries can occur at any time, to anyone’s body. Whether you’ve sprained an ankle playing club sports, pulled a muscle during dance class, or fallen off your longboard while rolling through campus, we are here to help. Sports Medicine Specialty Care UHS has medical staff who are specialists and trained to handle certain medical issues that are beyond the scope of primary care. These include a board-certified endocrinologist, a board-certified gynecologist, a gynecology-specialized nurse practitioner, and board-certified psychiatrists. Specialty Care Common Questions About Medical Services Who is eligible to use UHS medical services? Medical services are available to and prioritized for UO students. How do I register with UHS? UHS has a registration process for medical services, similar to what you can expect from a community provider. Like with any clinic, there are forms we want all students to complete, preferably before arriving at your first UHS visit. This all will be done through the myUOHealth portal . Students should do the following: Upload your existing health insurance information in the “Insurance” tab. Complete the UHS required forms (noted with a red asterisk) in the “Forms” tab, including the important My Duck Health History form. Upload any pertinent medical records in the “Upload” tab, especially if you will be seen for a pre-existing condition. How do I schedule an appointment? Appointments can be made with UHS by calling 541-346-2770. In addition, acute care, immunization, and STI testing appointments can be made online through myUOHealth . Students may also make an appointment in person but are not guaranteed a same-day appointment. What if I need to cancel or I miss my appointment? We realize that sometimes emergencies come up and your plans may change. If you cannot keep your UHS appointment, please call us as soon as possible at 541-346-2770. When you call, we will help you reschedule your appointment. If you cancel your appointment with less than two (2) hours’ notice (medical appointments) or 24 hours’ notice (physical therapy services, psychiatry, and dental appointments) or if you fail to show up for a scheduled appointment, you will be charged a no-show/late-cancellation fee. No-show/late-cancellation fees vary based on the type of appointment. Refer to our Costs for Services page . How much will my visit cost? See the UHS costs for services . If I am sick or injured and need to miss class, can I get a sick note? University Health Services does not routinely provide sick notes for students who miss class due to illness or injury. Learn more about our sick note policy . Does UHS maintain patient privacy and confidentiality? UHS complies with all privacy laws (HIPAA and FERPA) and best practices. As such, UHS maintains the security and confidentiality of your personal information, including electronic information. View the UHS privacy notice to learn more. How does billing at UHS work and will the billing of my services be kept confidential? Students have three billing options for services and supplies provided at University Health Services: We can bill your health insurance plan. Any remaining balance will be billed to your student account (DuckWeb). You can opt to “Pay Today” so no bill goes to your health insurance plan or student account. You can bill your student account for the entire cost of your visit. Students may obtain an itemized statement from UHS by accessing their statement history through the myUOHealth portal . If you seek insurance reimbursement, your insurance statement will have a detailed list of services rendered. Explanation of Benefits (EOBs) are forms that your health insurance plan will send to the address they have on file. If you are over the age of 18, you can ask your health insurance plan to redirect your EOBs to the address of your choosing. Paying for services at the time you receive them is the best way to maintain full confidentiality of your billing (no statement will be mailed). Learn more about our billing options . How do I obtain a copy of my medical records? Please complete the release of information on the myUOHealth portal . Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.