Sexual Well-Being | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being We provide opportunities and education for students to better understand and respect their own sexualities and those of others. Protection Connection @ the Duck Nest encourages a positive and respectful approach to sexuality and sexual relationships, the ability and opportunity to experience sexual pleasure and intimacy when and if desired, and access to accurate and comprehensive information about sex, boundaries, STIs, and contraceptive options. Protection Connection @ the Duck Nest Protection Connection is easiest way for UO students to get the sexual health supplies need for safer and more enjoyable sex. Our goal is to make inclusive sexual health supplies available, accessible, and easy to use for all who need and want them. In addition to providing safer sex supplies within the Duck Nest space (EMU 041), we are implementing new Hot Spot locations around campus and expanding our educational outreach and programming. Hot Spots Protection Connection stocks several Hot Spots across campus where students can pick up barrier contraception free of charge and on their own schedule. Hot Spots offer external condoms, internal condoms, personal lubricant, oral dams, and latex-free gloves. Check out the specific products we currently offer. Hot Spot locations include the University Health Services lobby near the pharmacy, the EMU (near the restrooms by Bartolotti's Pizza and the Fishbowl), and the Student Recreation Center near the Cycling Studio. We have also partnered with Duck Rides to provide safer sex supplies in their vehicles. Protection Connection at Student Events Protection Connection is excited to be at your organization’s next event. We have presentations on sexual health and well-being and can table at your event to answer questions and distribute safer sex supplies. Submit an outreach request to us . Don’t See What You’re Looking For? University Health Services offers HIV/STI testing and screening, contraceptive advice, breast and testicular exams, inclusive information on healthy sexuality, and more. Visit our sexual health webpage , call 541-346-2770, or use your myUOHealth portal to schedule an appointment with a provider. You can also stop by the Duck Nest in EMU 041 for more information and support. Main menu Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.