Anxiety Disorders | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Primary Care Acute Care Sports Medicine Specialty Care Lab and X-ray Anxiety Disorders If you are struggling with anxiety, you are not alone, and help is available right on campus. Occasional short-term anxiety is a normal part of life—an adaptive reaction to difficult or challenging circumstances in your life. But anxiety disorders involve more than temporary worry or fear. For people with an anxiety disorder, the anxiety does not go away, and can worsen over time. The symptoms can interfere with daily activities such as schoolwork, hobbies, and social activities. There are many types of anxiety disorders, including generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and various phobia-related disorders. Whether you are experiencing stress and worry related to particular life events or a more pervasive sense of anxiety, we are here to help. If you are a UO student experiencing difficult mental health symptoms and need support, the best place to start is with the Mental Health Access Team (MHAT). You can call 541-346-3227 or just drop by University Health Services for a same-day MHAT evaluation. This team will work with you to evaluate your needs, provide immediate help, and decide the best next steps to support your mental health. Many mental health issues can be successfully treated with short-term psychotherapy through UHS Counseling Services. If needed, the MHAT team can schedule you to see a provider in the primary care clinic or facilitate a referral to our psychiatry team. If you are experiencing a mental health crisis and UHS is closed, you can reach the UHS mental health crisis line at 541-346-3227. To connect with the three-digit national crisis and suicide lifeline, call 988. There are resources and information for coping with mental health concerns on the Counseling Services website . For more information on anxiety disorders: Counseling Services National Institute of Mental Health National Alliance on Mental Illness Centre for Clinical Interventions NIMH Expert Discusses Managing Stress and Anxiety : Learn about coping with stressful situations and when to seek help. Getting to Know Your Brain: Dealing with Stress : Test your knowledge about stress and the brain. Guided Visualization: Dealing with Stress : Learn how the brain handles stress and practice a guided visualization activity. Main menu Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.