Tobacco Cessation | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Tobacco Cessation The University of Oregon is a smoke- and tobacco-free campus. The choice to go this direction was student driven and made to improve the health of our entire campus population as well as to help keep our campus clean and beautiful.  Just like getting nicotine out of the campus environment took time and hard work, getting nicotine out of your system can be a real challenge. If you’re reading this, you’ve already taken an important first step—contemplating kicking your dependence on nicotine. When you’re ready to commit to something that will change your life, we have many resources to support you. Smoking Cessation and Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) for Students, Faculty Members, and Staff Pharmacists can provide smoking cessation counseling to students, faculty members, and staff. This is an appointment-based service. Each appointment will take 20-30 minutes and will consist of an evaluation of smoking habits, amount of nicotine used per day, and education about available resources. At the end of the appointment, the pharmacist can prescribe nicotine replacement products (patches, gum, lozenges) or the prescription medications Chantix (varenecline) and Zyban/Wellbutrin (bupropion). There is a small fee for the appointment, which may be covered by your insurance. Prescribed items can be billed to your prescription insurance—including over-the-counter nicotine products. Consult your insurance plan for details. Appointments are available during the clinical services times posted on the main pharmacy page. Call the pharmacy or inquire at the main desk. The pharmacy also sells nicotine replacement products over the counter. Note that OTC nicotine products sold without a prescription are not covered by your health insurance but may be eligible for FSA claims. For students, the Duck Nest Wellness Center has additional resources and support options available. Other Resources for Quitting Tobacco Smokefree.Gov QuitSTART App QuitGuide App 1-800-QUIT-NOW (1-800-784-8669) Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.