Physical Therapy Services | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu Acupuncture Massage Physical Therapy Services Our physical therapists (PTs) are highly qualified, licensed healthcare professionals who treat people of all ages and abilities, helping them to improve and maintain function and quality of life. As movement experts, we provide comprehensive rehabilitation to enable patients to overcome pain, dysfunction, and disability. Our staff work with patients on a one-on-one basis to determine all of the factors involved in an injury or disability, whether it’s related to overuse syndromes, postural imbalances, trauma, athletic injuries, acute or chronic pain, or managing pre- or post-surgical rehabilitation. We work collaboratively with all members of a patient’s healthcare team, including University Health Services physicians, to ensure excellent communication and follow through, and develop an individualized treatment plan to meet each patient’s treatment goals. Referrals A referral is not required to receive treatment. However, we highly recommended that you get a referral for our services to maximize your potential for insurance reimbursement. Additionally, your insurance company may require a referral or prior authorization before you begin treatment. Please contact your insurance company directly. Students can obtain a referral by calling 541-346-2770 to set up an appointment with a physician or nurse practitioner at University Health Services. Ongoing Rehabilitation Ongoing rehabilitation usually lasts for weeks or months. It is meant to systematically and progressively reduce pain and improve function that is compromised by an injury or other medical condition. Treatment may focus on patient education, therapeutic exercise, manual therapy, and other treatment strategies to improve function and help return patients to optimal levels of activity. Ongoing rehabilitation is offered on a scheduled basis. During your initial appointment, you will receive a complete evaluation and initial treatment. Areas of expertise for our clinical staff include: Manual therapy Therapeutic and functional exercise Sports-specific training Postural re-education Post-surgical rehabilitation Trigger point release Myofascial release Muscle energy techniques Strain-counterstrain Gait analysis Taping Bracing Modalities (pain- and inflammation-reducing treatments) Joint dysfunction—spine (back and neck), pelvis, hip, knee, ankle, shoulder, elbow, wrist, fingers, and toes Neurodynamics Proprioceptive training Instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization (IASTM) Patient education Preparing for Your Appointment A standard appointment is 45 minutes. Your session may be shorter or longer according to your specific needs. Wear comfortable exercise clothing, such as a T-shirt, shorts, and sneakers. Depending on your condition, you may be asked to change into a gown or shorts for proper evaluation and treatment. If you are being evaluated for running or foot biomechanics, please bring athletic shoes. Charges for follow-up appointments will vary according to the length, complexity, and treatment services of each appointment. Your provider may issue you supplies to assist with your recovery, which may or may not be covered by your insurance. It is your responsibility to contact your insurance company to determine the extent of your coverage. Please speak with your provider if you have any questions or concerns regarding the cost of care. If you cannot keep your appointment, please call us as soon as possible. We realize that sometimes emergencies come up and your plans may change. When you call, we will help you reschedule your appointment. Giving us as much notice as possible helps us to better serve you and our other patients. If you cancel a session with less than 24 hours’ notice or fail to show up for a scheduled appointment, you will be charged a no-show or late cancellation fee of $35. Please cancel your appointment if you are ill. Physical therapy is open Monday through Friday, with some closures during term breaks. We are located on the third floor of the University Health Services building. To make an appointment call 541-346-4401 or stop by the clinic. Faculty/Staff Services Faculty and staff may now access physical therapy services through the department. We are not available for the treatment of Worker’s Compensation injuries at this time. Give us a call at 541-346-4401 to schedule an appointment. You will then complete your standard intake forms, by using your UO credentials and login to access the myUOHealth portal , click on the “Forms” tab and scroll to the bottom to find the “Faculty/Staff” forms. Once you schedule an appointment with the team, you will have additional forms to complete in the portal. Physical Therapy FAQ Costs for Services Hours of Operation Mondays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays: 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Tuesdays and Fridays: 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. 541-346-4401 Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.