Insurance for Special Situations | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu UO Student Insurance In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Insurance for Special Situations Graduate Employees If you have a graduate employee appointment, contact the Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation (GTFF) at 541-344-0832 to determine if you are eligible for the GTFF Plan. The GTFF insurance plan offered to UO graduate employees qualifies you for a waiver from the UO Student Health Benefits Plan. Effective Fall 2018, graduate employees who enroll in the GTFF plan can now submit their Waiver Request Form at the same time they enroll in the GTFF plan (through the GTFF Office). You do not need to submit an additional request form through the portal. Deadlines apply. Don't forget to register your GTFF Plan with University Health Services to ensure seamless access to care. Do this by bringing a copy of your insurance card to the insurance liaison desk on the first floor of the health services building. University Health Services is able to directly bill the GTFF Plan. In addition, your medical deductible does not apply when you access care at UHS. Study Abroad Students The UO Student Health Benefits Plan includes medical evacuation and repatriation benefits required for study abroad programs. The benefits are included with the PacificSource Global Emergency Services program . You can enroll in the UO Student Health Benefits Plan through enroll.pacificsource.com/uo . International students who are studying abroad are still subject to the university’s insurance requirement. If you have other health insurance, remember to contact your insurance company directly to determine coverage while you travel. If you are on the UO Student Health Benefits Plan and your study abroad program requires insurance verification, please send an email to the insurance coordinator at uostudentinsure@uoregon.edu to request verification. Visiting Scholars Visiting scholars are not eligible to purchase the UO health insurance plan. However, there are several short term plans available commercially. The University of Oregon does not endorse any plan or program. The links below are informational only. Individuals are encouraged to make their own assessment of their healthcare needs and make an independent decision. Compass Benefits Group PGHstudent Graduating Students and Alumni The UO Alumni Association partners with the Alumni Insurance Program to offer a wide variety of plans, whether you're a recent graduate, settled down with a family and career, or ready to enjoy retirement. Main menu Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.