Welcome to University Health Services | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Welcome to University Health Services Dear University of Oregon students, Whether you are here for your first term or you are a returning Duck, we are excited to welcome you to University Health Services (UHS). UHS provides comprehensive health care, right on campus . We are a nationally accredited, multi-specialty healthcare organization with more than 150 staff whose primary focus is the health and well-being of UO students. UHS has an integrated approach that provides medical services, mental health services, and public health programming for all enrolled students. The UHS building, newly renovated in 2020, provides state-of-the-art care with cutting edge diagnostic and supportive medical equipment. Services include medical care, psychiatry, counseling services, a pharmacy, physical therapy services, a dental clinic, well-being programming and much more. UHS bills health insurance for medical and psychiatric care, pharmacy, physical therapy and dental. All programming and services provided by Counseling Services and Public Health are available at no charge for students because they are covered by the student health fee. Medical Services provides primary care, acute care, sports medicine, and specialty care (including psychiatry, endocrinology, and gynecology). Within those main services lines, you will find teams who provide support for nearly all your medical needs, including continuity care for pre-existing medical conditions, sexual health services, transgender care, vaccines, laboratory and x-ray support. We also have a dental clinic, physical therapy services, a pharmacy, and much more. Counseling Services offers individual and group therapy for a wide range of concerns, including but not limited to: academic stress, relationships, depression, anxiety, eating concerns, and drug and alcohol issues. Additional services include case management, referrals, and educational workshops and consultative services for family, friends, and faculty and staff members needing guidance when concerned about a student. Note that the new Mental Health Care Coordination Services team provides direct access to mental health services for any student who feels a need for support. Students may drop in anytime UHS is open. No appointment is required. This team will offer urgent mental health evaluations, medication management support, urgent therapy support, intake to UHS mental health services, and will assist with transition of care for ongoing mental health care needs. Public Health at UHS provides large-scale, campus-wide programming to students to improve the health and well-being of the campus population, generally through peer-led health and well-being programming. The Public Health team monitors immunization compliance, supports students with communicable diseases, and provides evidence-informed programming related to mental, physical, and sexual well-being into communities and through the Duck Nest Wellness Center, located on the ground floor of the EMU. The Public Health team and UHS in general provide many opportunities for student employment and leadership, both paid and volunteer. Again, we welcome you to UHS! You can reach us 24/7 for medical and mental health support, as both the main number (541-346-2770) and Counseling Services’ number (541-346-3227) roll over when UHS is closed.  Come see us at UHS—we provide care, right on campus ! Sincerely, Debra Beck, RN, MBA Executive Director, University Health Services Associate Vice President, Student Services and Enrollment Management Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.