Federal Tax Information | University Health Services Skip to main content myUOHealth Login One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Health Services Menu Medical Care Medical Care Overview Primary Care Primary Care Overview Allergy and Asthma Anxiety Disorders Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Communicable Disease Support Depression and Other Mood Disorders Eating Disorders Emotional Support Animals Faculty and Staff Services Immunizations, Titers, and Tuberculosis Screening LGBTQIA+ Services Sexual Assault Medical Support Sexual Health: Contraception and Pregnancy Sexual Health: HIV, PrEP, and PEP Sexual Health: Sexually Transmitted Infections Telemedicine Transgender Care Travel Medicine Acute Care Acute Care Overview Colds, Flu, Sore Throats Guidance for COVID-19 Cases Sports Medicine Sports Medicine Overview Athletic Shoes and Footwear Athletic Well-Being Concussions COVID-19 and Exercise Durable Medical Equipment Rehabilitation and Athletic Trainer Evaluation and Treatment Sports Injuries Sports Injury Prevention Sports Medicine Imaging Services Specialty Care Specialty Care Overview Endocrinology Gynecology Lab and X-ray Mental Health Mental Health Overview Psychiatry Counseling Pharmacy Pharmacy Overview Refill Your UO  Prescription Request a Prescription Transfer Dental Physical Therapy Physical Therapy Overview Acupuncture Massage New to UO? New to UO? Overview Immunization Requirements TB Risk Assessment Insurance Requirements Insurance Requirements Overview UO International Student Health Insurance Requirement Procedure Billing Billing Overview Costs for Services Billing Options Fees Insurance Insurance Overview UO Student Insurance UO Student Insurance Overview Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Understanding Insurance Overview How Insurance Works Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Well-Being Well-Being Overview Duck Nest Mental Well-Being Physical Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Sexual Well-Being Overview Protection Connection Safer Sex Guide About About Overview FAQs What My Fee Pays For Get Involved Events Forms Forms Overview Notice of Privacy Practices Your Rights and Responsibilities Our Team Our Mission myUOHealth myUOHealth Login Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Health Services Main navigation Medical Care Mental Health Pharmacy Dental Physical Therapy New to UO? Billing Insurance Well-Being About Secondary Menu UO Student Insurance In-Network Plans Understanding Insurance Insurance Compliance Oregon ContraceptiveCare (CCare) Federal Tax Information The Federal Regulation The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) includes a requirement for each individual to either have ”Minimum Essential Coverage” (MEC) for each month, qualify for an exemption, or make a payment when filing their federal income tax return. The University of Oregon is pleased to announce that the UO Student Health Benefits Plan (SHBP) has been recognized by the US. Department of Health and Human Services as MEC beginning with the 2016-17 plan year and continuing in subsequent years. This means that the coverage available through the plan will satisfy the individual coverage requirement in the ACA. The UO is required to report to the IRS those persons that maintained this coverage through the UO SHBP. The IRS also requires the UO to provide a statement of coverage (Federal Tax Form 1095-B) to the primary covered person. As part of this process, the university is required to make three attempts to members for their Social Security Number (SSN) or Tax Identification Number (TIN). Students who are not eligible for a SNN or TIN may ignore the requests for this information; not having a SSN or TIN does not affect UO SHBP coverage. Students are not required to provide us with this information and will not be penalized if they choose not to provide the information requested. If a student does not provide their SSN or TIN, the IRS may not be able to match the 1095-B form with their records to determine that the student was in compliance with the individual shared responsibility provision. When and How Students Receive Their 1095-B Forms Each student who is the primary covered person under the plan will be mailed a 1095-B form after January 1 each year and prior to the published deadline, as set by the US Dept. of Health and Human Services (which may vary). The mailing address available within the University of Oregon Registrar system will be used unless a student has updated their address with University Health Services. To ensure receipt of your 1095-B form, please update University Health Services whenever you change your mailing address. You do not need to wait for your 1095-B form to file your tax return. What to do with the 1095-B Form File this form with your tax records. You are required to keep copies of your tax record and tax documents (like the 1095-B form) for three years from the date you filed your original return. For more information about the form, go to https://www.irs.gov/uac/about-form-1095-b . Main menu Domestic Student Plan Federal Tax Information Insurance for Special Situations International Student Insurance Waivers International Student Plan Law Student Plan Division of Student Life Division of Student Life University Career Center Office of the Dean of Students Erb Memorial Union Holden Center for Leadership and Community Engagement Department of Physical Education and Recreation Parent and Family Programs Student Services Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships Office of the Registrar University Counseling Services University Health Services University Housing University Testing Center University Health Services 1590 E 13th Ave Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-2770 P: 844-965-9250 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.