Kemi Balogun | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Kemi Balogun Biography What is your background and areas of interest? I am a feminist sociologist. My expertise is in the cultural politics of bodies; citizenship; racialization; the intersections between gender, nation, and globalization; and African studies (including the African diaspora). What brought you to the University of Oregon? The opportunity to align my research and teaching interests. I get to teach students who are excited to connect real world observations to sociological and feminist concepts. Students learn firsthand about the relevance of what they learn in the classroom by applying their critical thinking to current events and personal experiences. I grew up in the Bay Area, so I am thrilled to have remained on the West Coast and Oregon has amplified my appreciation for the outdoors. How did you get involved with your field? I have always been curious about the world around me! The summer before college, I learned there was an entire academic field that would allow me to explore my interest in how society is structured. I was immediately hooked. Sociology is such a broad field that you can study literally anything through a sociological lens. I am committed to understanding issues that relate to power and social change so my joint faculty position in the Department of Sociology and the Department of Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies is a perfect fit. What is the best advice you have for a college student? Take ownership of your education and be open to learning from your instructors and classmates. Consider taking a class that’s outside your wheelhouse and reflect on how it applies to your interests and goals. College is such a special time for self-exploration, community building, and pushing yourself outside your comfort zone. Embrace the process, get to know a wide variety of people, and cherish the memories you’re building along the way. How can students contact you? I can be reached at kbalogun@uoregon.edu . I will be holding regular weekly drop-in office hours at Global Scholars Hall 104. I look forward to connecting with you! Faculty Fellow; Associate Professor, Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Email kbalogun@uoregon.edu Faculty in the Halls Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.