Winter Break | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Winter Break Halls Closed: December 13, 2024–January 4, 2025 Residence halls close at noon on Friday, December 13, 2024. Winter move-in is January 4, 2025. Current residents will be able to return January 4, 2024, after 9:00 a.m. There will be limited services available. Students will be asked to complete an end of term plans form to indicate if they are: Leaving for winter break and returning to live on campus for winter term (date leaving and date returning) Continuing to live on campus for winter term and require winter break housing Checking out of your room at the end of fall term and not returning for winter term Late Stay or Winter Break Housing If you need to stay in the residence halls over winter break (noon on December 13, 2024, to January 4, 2025), please submit a request on My Housing to be considered—please note there is a charge (cost TBA) to stay over for winter break. (Charge does not apply to residents of the Yasui Hall.) Keys and Move-out Students who are returning to the residence halls for winter term will keep their keys with them over winter break. Students who are checking out of the residence halls at the end of fall term need to return their room and mail box keys to the service center before leaving for winter break. There is a $75 fee for keys not returned, $65 for a lock change on the room, and $10 for a replacement mail box key. Students who decide to not return to campus for winter term but did not check out before leaving for winter break will need to return to campus to remove their items and return their keys. Keys will not be accepted through the mail and items are not able to be shipped to students. Dining University housing dining will be closed during winter break. The dining venues in the EMU will be open for limited hours. For detailed hours visit map.uoregon.edu/food . Meal Points Your prorated meal points for the week of December 8–13 will be as follows: Residents with 50 meal points per week will have: 43 meal points. Residents with 65 meal points per week will have: 56 meal points. Residents with 80 meal points per week will have: 69 meal points. Residents with 95 meal points per week will have: 81 meal points. Please note that although students are permitted to move into the residence halls on Saturday, January 4, meal plans will not be available until Sunday, January 5. Housing Service Centers Winter Break Hours TBA New Roommates May Move In Rooms with vacancies may be entered to prepare the space for a new resident. Please be sure that your belongings are not on the side of the room the new resident will be using. In the event that you come back from break and find a new roommate living in your room, we hope that you will extend them a warm UO welcome and provide them equitable space to share the room. Maintenance Scheduled maintenance may be completed during break. This includes checking smoke detectors, door locks, heaters, and other projects. This will require University Housing staff to be in the rooms. If you have any questions or concerns, please visit or call your University Housing service center. Winter Break Fees Since the halls close over winter break, there is an additional fee (cost TBA) for students who stay on campus and are unable to vacate during this time. (Charge does not apply to residents of Yasui Hall.) Remaining students may be moved into temporary rooms to allow for better campus safety during this period of low occupancy. There is a $35 daily fee for any student checking out of the residence halls late (after Friday, December 13, at noon) Holidays and Breaks Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.