Dining | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Dining Explore Dining Options Our chefs take pride in using ingredients from 25 local farms to prepare delicious recipes from scratch. All students who live on campus choose one of five residential meal plans that let you eat the way that’s right for you. University Dining locations are also open to the campus community and accept Ducks Dine On , cash, and credit cards. Explore Meal Plans Summer Dining Dining Venues Agate Street Market Barnhart Dining Bullseye Taco Carson Dining Drake’s Deli Duck’s House DUX Bistro Fresh Marketcafé Hearth & Soul PNW Café Puddles Café Steam Tamarind Watershed Sustainable Dining In addition to sourcing food from local farms, we do our best to make sure our entire dining operation is sustainable. We encourage the use of reusable plates, baskets, and flatware over single-use disposable items. We compost more than 170 tons of food scraps each year. This waste that would otherwise be sent to a landfill is used in gardens throughout our local area. In addition, all of our spent fryer oil is converted into biodiesel fuels through a local partnership. All of our dining locations have water refill stations or water spouts on soda dispensers. We encourage students to use refillable coffee mugs—we even reward you with our Choose to Reuse program. Bring your refillable mug in nine times and the tenth drink is on us. Due to COVID-19, the use of reusable items and refillable options is limited at this time. University Catering University Catering is a full-service catering company available to University of Oregon students, faculty and staff members, and the greater Eugene-Springfield area. Planning an event should be simple, and it will be with the wide range of customizable options and beautiful preparation that comes with University Catering. We are dedicated to the notion that our meals and events should always be exceptionally delicious and unforgettable. University Catering and Conferences is proud to offer sustainable options for any event that we cater. We can work with you to reduce waste and purchase local products. University Catering Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.