Art ARC | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Art ARC This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Art community? The Art Academic Residential Community (Art ARC) is a group of students living and working together to develop creative art and design projects. Students will discover how art and design can transform the world and will share creative works with the larger campus community through exhibitions and community events. Residents living here will have unique opportunities to connect with working artists and designers from the university and beyond. Learning how to use art and design to enrich our communities and world is central to the Art ARC. Why should I choose to live in this community? The Art ARC is open to students interested in making art, viewing art, or creating original, inventive designs. You will be introduced to studio-based learning and foundational concepts of art and design. As part of our creative community, you will connect with like-minded peers, faculty, professional artists, and designers through special events and activities. No previous experience is required, although priority will be given to students majoring in any school in the university’s College of Design. The Department of Art and the College of Design collaborate to support this community. What are the community expectations? ART 115: Surface, Space, and Time (4 credits) ART 116: Core Interdisciplinary Lab (4 credits) UGST 111: Art ARC (fall: 2 credits, winter: 2 credits) All courses satisfy specific major and/or minor requirements Location Residence Hall: Unthank Hall . Students living in this community must select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All first-year students are eligible. Priority for the Art ARC will be given to students majoring in art or art and technology. The classes in the Art ARC do not fit within the architecture curriculum and is not advised for admitted architecture students. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.