Sally Smith and Richard Romm RA Enrichment Fund | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Sally Smith and Richard Romm RA Enrichment Fund Sally Smith and Richard Romm Resident Assistant Enrichment Fund University Housing is proud to announce the creation of the Sally Smith and Richard Romm Resident Assistant RA Enrichment Fund Program. The contributions made to University Housing by Sally Smith and Dick Romm, especially in regards to residence life and RA coordination, were both abundant and immensely valuable to the future of this institution, which is why we are so pleased to present them with this honor. The University of Oregon’s 140+ resident assistants serve a unique leadership role on campus and are pivotal to the success of residential communities. It is essential that these campus leaders are provided with networking, leadership, and experiential opportunities to help elevate the residential communities, university experience and their career development. The Sally Smith and Richard Romm RA Enrichment Fund provides invaluable support for resident assistants to pursue experiential learning opportunities, sharing about their leadership experiences, creating innovations to enhance the residential communities and hearing about and networking with former RAs. Apply for the Enrichment Fund Enrichment Experiences Resident assistants will be provided with the opportunity to apply for funds to cover the cost of related to attending or presenting at specialized workshops, trainings, or conferences; internship support; other opportunities supporting leadership development and career readiness; or travel and living expenses for summer study abroad. Each award recipient will present a session about their experience including lessons learned and recommendations for future projects. $67,500–$70,000 (14–50 awards of $500–$5,000 each) Applications will consist of: a statement of purpose explaining the applicant’s leadership, academic, or professional goals the projects or experiences the student plans to use the enrichment funds for Professional Development Speaker A former RA who is a current professional will be asked to speak at an RA professional development workshop about their career, the connection to being an RA, leadership and mentoring. There will be a networking lunch or dinner with the speaker with a limited number of RAs. $7,000 Provided through a generous gift from Michael Henningsen, UO resident assistant from 1981–83, in honor of mentors Dick Romm and Sally Smith Dick Romm began in University Housing in 1965 as a supervisor for the men’s dorm counselors (what we now call resident assistants). He worked his way up to become the assistant director of housing where he was in charge of RA selection and training programs and led the complex directors (community directors). In his 31 years in University Housing, he was pivotal in the effort to integrate students of color on campus and, as a gay man himself, strove to create a supportive environment for LGBTQ+ students. Romm and his partner still live near campus and enjoy taking walks around campus and volunteering at move-in day each fall. Dick Romm met the late Sally Smith as her supervisor while she was the director of residence hall programming and was impressed by her passion and dedication. “Truly a Jill of all trades,” according to Romm, she was known for juggling multiple positions in housing and making them all look easy. She was much beloved by her entire RA staff, who would often lovingly tease her about how often she—overcome with her passion for her role— would cry on the job. Regrettably, this honor must be presented posthumously, but we hope that the creation of this fund will ensure that Sally’s legacy is never forgotten. Michael Henningsen provided this fund in recognition of the incredible work that RAs provide on campus, and the numerous skills they gain from the experience—skills that can contribute to a lifetime of leadership opportunities across many career fields. ”In honor of my mentors, I hope this fund inspires the next generation of leaders.” Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.