Live-On Requirement | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Residence Halls Room Types Costs Summer Housing Live-On Requirement Live-On Requirement First-year students live on campus All incoming first-year undergraduate students are required to live on campus. Living on campus for at least your first year is a significant advantage that contributes to your success at the University of Oregon. You will be part of a community and make connections with other students, faculty, and staff. Living on campus also connects you to services that support you as you transition to college life. Studies show that first-year full-time students living on campus have higher GPAs, stay in school in higher numbers, and graduate faster. The University of Oregon recognizes that exceptions to the live-on requirement may be appropriate in certain circumstances and may be requested on My Housing . Exemption requests are reviewed by an advisory group. American English Institute (AEI) students should contact aeiservices@uoregon.edu for information about housing options for AEI students and additional assistance in registering for housing. AEI Student Housing Options Fall 2024 exemption request deadline The deadline to complete an exemption request is July 31, 2024. Exemptions that will normally be approved: Students who have graduated from high school more than one calendar year before their starting term at UO. Students over the age of 21 by the first day of their starting term at UO. Students who are living with a parent or legal guardian. Students who are married or in a registered domestic partnership or civil union. Students who are caring for a dependent who is living with them. Students who are veterans or on active duty. Students who are in an UO-sponsored program that requires living off campus or out of the area. Students who have a disability that cannot be accommodated on campus. Students who have religious, moral, or ethical beliefs that cannot be accommodated on campus. Students who have deferred their admission to the university through an official or unofficial gap year program. American English Institute students taking IEP classes are not required to reside on campus. Other exceptions not listed above will also be considered on a case-by-case basis. Students can request an exemption to the live-on requirement online. Request an exemption Frequently asked questions: What about families who own property in the Eugene area but don’t live at the property, could the student live there rather than living on campus? To qualify for an exemption to the live-on requirement, a student must live with the parent or legal guardian. What constitutes as a legal guardian? The student must be a dependent of the parent or legal guardian to qualify to live with them for an exemption. If I qualify for an exemption what do I need to do? Fill out an exemption on My Housing and wait for confirmation that the exemption has been granted. Who is on the advisory group? The advisory group is composed of a wide range of university campus partners and includes representatives from Financial Aid, Academic Advising, and the Office of the Dean of Students as well as a representative from the Academic Residential Community Council. The University Housing Associate Director of Residence Life, Resident Services and Systems will staff the committee as a non-voting member. No member of University Housing will have a vote on the advisory group. Am I required to live on campus if I am dual-enrolled at Lane Community College? Students who are registered for 12 credits or more at the UO are required to live on-campus. Students who are dual-enrolled at UO and LCC taking fewer than 12 credits at the UO will need to submit an exemption. I will not be a full time student, do I need to live on campus? The live-on requirement is for full-time, first-year students. If you are not a full-time student (12 credits for undergraduate students) you will need to submit an exemption. Can I apply for an exemption even if my reason is not listed on the website? Yes, each case is individually reviewed and all students are able to apply for an exemption. Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.