Creative Practice Community | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Creative Practice Community This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Creative Practice Community? The Creative Practice Community recognizes that creativity is best fostered when ideas, methods and materials can easily be shared. This community is designed for students want to live with others who are interested in any kind of making — fine arts, craft, digital media, product design, architecture, furniture, and landscapes for example. Be a part of a diverse creative group! Why should I choose to live in this community? This community neighbors the Art Academic Residential Community . There are no courses required for participating in the Creative Practice Community and instead allows students to collaborate with others in a variety of majors with similar interests. There is a faculty fellow partner from the College of Design associated with this community who will be available to engage with students through various events each term, residence hall based office hours, and informal meetings around campus. What are the community expectations? There is no course work required with this community. Community residents will be encouraged to collaborate together informally through regular daily hall interactions as well as via various hosted formal events such as workshops, film screenings, faculty fellow office hours, and Eugene-based outings. Location Residence Hall: Unthank Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence halls if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All first year students are eligible. The community may be of particular interest to students under the umbrella of the College of Design, including majors in art history, art, art and technology, product design, PPM, historic preservation, interior architecture, landscape architecture, and architecture. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.