New Residence Hall Construction | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us New Residence Hall Construction Hamilton Walton Tranformation Project Construction Dynamic and attractive communities are needed to help drive and support student recruitment and retention in a very competitive environment. Students who live on campus in the UO’s high-quality, learning-centered residential communities have higher grades, higher retention and graduation rates, and graduate faster than students who live off campus. Living on campus at the UO facilitates diverse and inclusive communal engagement, contributes to students’ exploring purpose and meaning, and facilitates students making long-term social connections. Project Overview The Hamilton Walton Transformation Project will unfold in three phases: Unthank Hall (completed summer 2021) on Humpy Lumpy Lawn contains the Student Welcome Center, PNW Market, academic spaces, and residences for 700 students. Removal of Walton Hall and construction of two new residence hall buildings (completed August 2023): the New Residence Hall will contain academic spaces, a service center, a package locker delivery center, and residences for 705 students. The New Apartment-Style Residence Hall (named Yasui Hall) will contain four-person and single-occupant studio units for 400 students. Removal of Hamilton Hall and development of a new green space which will be larger than the Humpy Lumpy Lawn that Unthank Hall replaced. Phase Three Phase three of the Hamilton Walton Transformation Project (HWTP) will be the addition of a beautiful green space in place of Hamilton Hall. Phase Three Project Facts The new green space is being constructed as a replacement for the gone-but-not-forgotten Humpy Lumpy Lawn, on which Unthank Hall (HWTP phase one) was built. Completion of phase three will create an uninterrupted green space that stretches from the Erb Memorial Union lawn to the alumni center and Matthew Knight Arena. Funding sources: revenue bonds/internal bank Phase three combined square footage: 161,500 GSF Phase Three Timeline (tentative) Start date: Summer 2025 Completed: Summer 2026 Sustainability Project administrators located the building to preserve as many of the large trees along 15th Avenue as possible. Some of the trees that will be harvested will be used in the project. The amount of green space that will be available after the entire project is completed will be larger than the current green space by approximately 20 percent. All three new buildings will meet the Advanced Energy Threshold—25 percent above the current state energy code—and will earn LEED Gold certification. Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.