Wonkak Kim | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Wonkak Kim Biography Background and areas of interest: I am a concert clarinetist and present more than 50 performances around the world each year. I have been invited to more than 50 universities and conservatories internationally and performed in leading venues such as Carnegie Hall. My professional interests are focused around classical solo, chamber and orchestral music performance, the fusion of East Asian traditional music with Western contemporary music, and high-level musicianship. My personal interests span from antiquarian book collecting, classical LP records, modern literature, investment/personal finances, and career planning. What brought you to the University of Oregon? When I was offered the clarinet professor position at the University of Oregon, I was particularly excited with its mission that emphasizes open collaboration and innovation. I am very proud of the forward looking vision shared by both the faculty and students of our university, which has already had a profound impact on both my research and pedagogy in very positive ways. How did you get involved in your field? I had rather unique professional upbringing. My primary major in college was mathematics, but I enjoyed fully engaging myself in my second major, music performance. As I experienced the thrill of high-level performances—particularly in the field of chamber music—with some of the world's most renowned musicians, I quickly realized that music is what I wanted to dedicate my life to. Coming from a family of academics, I chose to pursue my career as a music professor while maintaining an active performing schedule. I have been fortunate to have many important mentors and professors who became ideal role models for planning my career. What is the best advice you have for a college student? I suggest that every student stay fully open and engage in as diverse experiences as they can. While it is very important to fully invest their efforts and time studying their primary discipline, I strongly believe that a broader perspective, a wide array of personal interactions, and an understanding of diverse cultures will shape each student to become a better scholar, person, and entrepreneur. I find that my biggest strength as musician and educator often comes from my non-music experiences such as mathematical studies, reading diverse literature, and traveling and living in many difference places around the world. Faculty Fellow; Assistant Professor of Clarinet, School of Music and Dance Email wkim@uoregon.edu Faculty in the Halls Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.