Payment Information | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Payment Information University Housing bills room and board charges to your student account at the beginning of each term. The fall term totals include the $350 one-time prepayment due when you sign your contract. The rates do not include the $50 registration fee which is also due when you sign your contract. Payments are due on the first day of the following month and interest and billing charges are assessed on past due balances after the 10th of the month. Room and board charges appear on the same monthly statement that includes tuition, student fees, and other university charges and payments. Statements are generated monthly around the 15th and sent to the student’s university-issued email account. The university uses an electronic billing and payment system called QuikPAY®. Students can make payments via QuikPAY® through their DuckWeb account. July 31, 2024: Last day to cancel housing contract with no penalty for fall 2024 Billing Support If you have questions about the University Housing sections of your bill, please call 541-346-4277. Please know that University Housing will never ask for sensitive information, like a credit card number, via email. Due to federal regulations, we are limited in what information we can release to anyone except the student, including authorized payers. We can directly discuss billing issues only with students. If you have more general questions about your bill, please contact Student Billing and UO Accounts Receivable at 541-346-3170. Website for Authorized Payments Group Damages Charge The university has developed a response to hall offenses such as theft and vandalism. Designed to promote responsibility for the community, the “group damages charge” holds all hall residents accountable when members demonstrate disregard for their living environment and when excessive cleaning is necessary. These charges come out each term and are billed to students’ accounts as appropriate. Moving In Information Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.