Parents and Families | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Parents and Families Parents and Families In University Housing and at the UO, we know how important your student is to you. We invite you to partner with us to support your student as they live on campus. Housing Blog Parent and Family Programs Important Dates for 2024–25 July 31: Last day to submit exemption request for the 2024-25 academic year. September 26–27: Fall move-in. Each student will be assigned a move-in date and time by early September. September 30: Classes begin. December 13: Residence halls close for fall term at noon. Students may leave personal items in the room. January 5: Winter move-in. March 22–30: Spring break. March 30: Spring move-in. June 13: Residence halls close. Students must move out of the residence halls within 24 hours after their last final, or by noon, whichever occurs first. Move-in Fall 2024 Holidays and Breaks Move-out Spring 2025 Resources UO Parent and Family Resources Housing Resources Parent and Family Programs Parent and Family IntroDUCKtion Other Information Duck Bucks Safety and Security Billing UO Alerts Privacy Policy The University of Oregon is committed to the privacy security of our students. Once a student has reached age 18 or is attending the university, all FERPA rights (Family Education Rights and Privacy Act) belong to the student. Parent access to education records (including grades and accounts) is limited to information classified as Directory Information under the University of Oregon Student Records Policy . We know that parents and families often contribute to their student’s success at the UO and strive to provide as much information as we can to support our students. Parents are encouraged to read the privacy policy information provided for students . Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.