Printers | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Printers Printing in the Residence Halls There’s no need to pack a printer, we have easily accessible printers in the residence halls. There are five stations—sponsored by Wēpa , a cloud-based print station vendor—that can be used to print black and white, color, single-sided, and double-sided copies. Log in with your student ID and use Duck Bucks to pay, or set up a Wēpa account and pay with your credit card. Printer Locations Barnhart Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Unthank Hall New Residence Hall Living Learning Center North Using the Printers Use your UO Duck ID to sign into the printer, this will allow you to use your Duck Bucks to print. If you don’t have a UO ID card, create a Wēpa account and use a credit card or log in to access the printer. Find your document using the following methods: Cloud: access your Box, Dropbox, Google Drive, Office 365, or OneDrive accounts at any print station in the residence halls. From your computer: download the Wēpa print driver to your personal computer. Open your document, choose “file>print” and select the Wēpa printer. USB: insert your USB drive at any print station. Web – log in , select your documents and “send to Wēpa.” Mobile: download the Wēpa print app onto your mobile device. Email: Using the email tied to your Wēpa account, email your documents to print@wepanow.com 3. Print your document. Costs $0.08 monochrome single-sided $0.15 monochrome double-sided $0.35 color single-sided $0.65 color double-sided Personal Wireless Printers in the Residence Halls Wireless printers are becoming extremely common, so much so that it is almost impossible today to buy a home printer without wireless function included. Due to security limitations, printers (with the wireless function enabled) are not allowed on University of Oregon’s network. This is due to two factors: An unsecured printer on the wireless network would be discoverable and available for printing from any other device connected to the network. Wireless printers distribute a wireless signal to allow devices like phones to connect to them and print. UO WAPs (wireless access points) will back off any foreign signal introduced into their radius. This means that wireless printers, when broadcasting their signal, will cause the university’s wireless signal to have less connectivity in that printer’s radius. This will degrade the signal strength for all wireless users. Printers with built-in wireless must have the wireless function disabled. Please consult your user manual to learn how to turn off your printer’s wireless function. All printers should have the ability to physically connect using a USB cable. If your wireless printer did not come with a cable, we sell them at the ResNet store. How to Manually Register your Device Use an Ethernet cable to plug your device into an active port and turn on the device. Follow the instructions for your gaming console or Smart TV to find the wired MAC address for your device. Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.