Performing Artists Collective | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Performing Artists Collective This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Performing Artists Collective? The Performing Artists Collective is an innovative community of students who are interested in collaborating across music, dance, and theater. In this community, you will be introduced to possible careers in the performing arts, as well as engage in cross-discipline collaboration projects. The goal of the community is to provide you with multiple levels of performance, academic, and personal support to further enhance the top-level education you’ll receive at the University of Oregon. Why should I choose to live in this community? In addition to the benefits of living with colleagues who are pursuing similar degree paths, you will have access to on-site peer advising, around-the-clock access to acoustically designed practice rooms, a dance rehearsal and performance space with sprung wood floors and full-length mirrors, as well as common community and group study spaces. It is equally important to note that your resident assistant will be someone well-acquainted with the performing arts who can be a valuable resource, especially for students in their first and second years of study. The Performing Artists Collective will offer these amenities: Three music practice rooms Lounge with upright piano More access to faculty connections Community learning and engagement Multipurpose room with community study space, classroom technology, and electric keyboards Practice space for dancers What are the community expectations? Students will take UGST 112 (PAC ARC Seminar) fall and winter terms (total of 4 credits). These courses combined meet the core education group requirement for social science. (Optional) MUS 263: US Pop Music, 1800–1930 (4 credits). Satisfies United States: Difference, Inequality, and Agency requirement and an Arts and Letters core education requirement. Show a commitment to learning about fellow performing arts disciplines in the ARC. Take advantage of your academic and residential advising services. Location Residence Hall: New residence hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? Students who have an active interest and concrete plans to get involved in the performing arts of music, dance, and/or theater at the UO—either through one of these majors, minors, or other significant involvement—are encouraged to apply. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.