What to Bring and What Not to Bring | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families What to Bring and What Not to Bring What to Bring We look forward to you moving into the residence halls! Each room will come furnished with a bed, wardrobe, dresser, desk, chair, and waste and recycling bins. Bring the essentials and then determine what else you might need once you have moved into your specific room. Many items can be purchased in Eugene after you arrive. Be sure to connect with your roommate and coordinate if you plan to bring any appliances or other large items. Appliances and Dishware Coffee pot or electric kettle (must have temperature control and auto shutoff with no open heat source) Mini fridge (4.6 cubic feet or smaller) Hair dryers, hair straighteners, or electric shavers (UL-listed) Water bottle, thermos, cup, plate, bowl, mug, and flatware Bedding Sheets (most beds are twin XL; room assignment will specify) Comforter or blankets Pillows and pillowcases Bed risers—for metal frame beds. (Must be made of high-density polyethylene and hold up to 1,200 pounds. Can’t have built-in power outlets). Risers are sold at Agate Street Market in Unthank Hall. The student Residence Hall Association (RHA) partners with dormco.com to sell linens and bedding and care packages. Visit the RHA website for more information. Closet and Storage Hangers Closet organizers Storage containers Desk and Electronics Desk organizer and supplies Surge protector Small desk lamp (see below for lamps that are not permitted) Small fan Small TV or monitor Room Décor Posters and pictures Adhesive putty or blue tape / painter's tape (no nails, tacks, or double-sided tape) Rug Mirrors (do not place near windows where sunlight can hit it as this is a potential fire hazard) Laundry and Clothing Laundry basket High-efficiency detergent Fabric softener Clothing for all types of weather Bath Toiletries Towels (bath, hand, and washcloth) Robe Shower caddy Shower shoes Note: If you have a private bathroom or a sink in your room, bring environmentally friendly cleaning supplies and toilet paper. See Bathroom Cleaning Tips below. Emergency Supplies Flashlight Batteries Emergency supply kits Transportation An inexpensive bike Secure bike lock (U-lock) Bike helmet Bike lights and reflectors Please see your Residence Hall Contract for official information about placement of items in your room or other expectations related to safety. What Not to Bring The following items are prohibited and should not be brought with you. Alcohol and Drug Paraphernalia Alcoholic beverages and alcohol paraphernalia. Empty alcohol containers Rapid consumption devices Vapes Illegal drugs or paraphernalia such as bongs, grinders, pipes, etc. Electronics Extension cords or multi-plug adaptors Power strips without circuit breakers and reset buttons Space heaters Halogen lamps Devices not compatible with 110 volts and 60 cycle voltage, and not UL approved Personal wireless routers/printers LED strip lights Room Accessories Unapproved loft bed equipment such as cinderblock bed risers, or bed risers with power outlets built-in are not allowed (only bed risers made of high-density polyethylene that hold up to 1,200 pounds are permitted) All candles with or without a wick, incense, fireworks, gasoline, kerosene, butane and all other flammable materials Dry-erase or cork boards that affix to walls or doors Couches and furniture without flame-retardant upholstery (documentation required) Electric blankets Weapons Knives with a blade that projects or swings into position by force of a spring, by centrifugal force, by gravity or by any other force, such as combat and switch blades Any blade over three inches in length (e.g., ceremonial and fencing swords) Firearms, ammunition, explosives, and dangerous chemicals Possession or threatened usage of any projectile weapons (slingshots, water guns, paintball guns, air guns, and or any guns that fire foam or plastic pellets) Misuse of any personal defensive device, such as pepper spray or tasers Any other weapons or dangerous items including but not limited to: martial arts weapons, metal knuckles, blackjack, sap, or similar instruments Appliances Refrigerators over 4.6 cubic feet Microwave ovens, toasters and toaster ovens, hot plates, or electronic cooking grills Humidifiers Devices or appliances with an open heat source and without a thermostat and automatic shut-off features Air conditioning units Household appliances, such as lamps, that include unprotected electrical outlets on the device are prohibited. (Appliances such as alarm clocks or computers with low-voltage USB charging ports are acceptable.) BBQ grills and smokers Other Pets (only fish are allowed, which must be held in a tank of 10 gallons or less) Fuel-powered vehicles or parts Motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, electronic skateboards, hover boards, one-wheels, electronic scooters, or any other e-transportation device—and the batteries that operate them—are prohibited in university-owned and -operated buildings Please see your Residence Hall Contract for official information about placement of items in your room or other expectations related to safety. Bathroom Cleaning Tips Daily maintenance of in-room bathrooms and sinks is the responsibility of residents. Here are some tips. Dust and sweep: Wipe bathroom surfaces with a damp rag including the back of the toilet and sink areas. Sweep the floor, then wipe with cloth and disinfectant cleaner. Toilet: Apply the toilet bowl cleaner and let it sit for a few minutes while doing other tasks. Use a damp cloth to wipe down the outside of the toilet bowl, seat, lid, and top with disinfectant cleaner. With a toilet brush, scrub the inside of the bowl and flush. Shower: If you ignore cleaning the shower, you’ll only have to scrub harder in the future. Apply disinfectant cleaner, let it sit for about 15 minutes, and then clean with a scrub pad and rinse. Once a month, remove the shower curtain and wash in the washing machine. Hang while wet—do not dry in dryer. Sink and counter: Apply disinfectant cleaner on fixtures and counters, wipe with damp cloth. Mirror: Spray glass cleaner on the mirror, wipe away with a rag or paper towel. In general, the more often you clean, the quicker it will be each time. Letting dirt build up creates an environment where germs and bacteria thrive, so put on some gloves and keep it clean! We recommend doing this once a week. Bring these helpful cleaning products Rubber gloves Disinfectant cleaner Glass cleaner Toilet bowl cleaner and brush Rags or soft cloth Scrub pads Sponge Bucket Broom Screwdrivers and brushes are available to disassemble and clean the drain, ask your custodial coordinator. If something in the bathroom is broken, fill out a fix-it request on your My Housing account. Yasui Hall Residents living in Yasui Hall (formerly known as the New Apartment-Style Residence Hall) have a few notable differences when it comes to What to Bring and What Not to Bring, including a larger full size mattress and additional approved kitchen appliances. Please review the New Apartment-Style Residence Hall Addendum in the Residence Halls Standards and Expectations section of the My Housing resources page for more information. Moving In Information Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.