LGBTQIA+ Scholars | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us LGBTQIA+ Scholars This community is full for fall 2024. What is the LGBTQIA+ Scholars community? The LGBTQIA+ Scholars ARC is a community of peers that create intellectual and experiential opportunities to foster understanding of and respect for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, and allied identities, histories, and practices. Scholars will register for a range of course work with the intent and option of earning a minor in queer studies (QST). Scholars have access to individual academic advising with the LGBTQIA+ Scholars faculty director, and will engage with guest speakers, cosponsored programs, social events, and community service. What are the benefits of being in this community? Learn about LGBTQIA+ history, literature, and influencers in the field Meet with a faculty director and LGBT office coordinator committed to your success Connect with friends and find community among LGBTQIA+ folks Attend socials, events, and activities with the LGBT office Gain direct access to LGBTQIA+ campus and community resources Attend tutoring sessions and individual academic advising Earn general education credits, or credits for a women’s, gender, and sexuality studies major or queer studies minor What courses will we take? UGST 112 (LGBTQIA+ ARC Seminar) fall and winter (total of 4 credits). The two terms of the seminar combined count toward a core education requirement. Students are also expected to take one additional course each term which count toward the queer studies minor. Location Residence Hall: Earl Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact lgbtscholars@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? This community is open to any LGBTQIA+ students who accept and celebrate LGBTQIA+ people and are interested in learning about LGBTQIA+ history, theory, and culture community. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.