First-Year Explorers | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us First-Year Explorers This community is full for fall 2024. What is the First-Year Explorers community? The First-Year Explorers community is designed for exploring students who have not identified a specific major to pursue. Whether you have some possible majors you are considering or really aren’t sure what major to declare, students in this residential community will be provided with opportunities and resources related to major and career exploration. Why should I choose to live in this community? The First-Year Explorers receive support from academic and career advisors within the Office of Academic Advising and Student Peer Link. Students have the opportunity to build close connections and seek academic/career guidance throughout their time in the community. Advisors will also host regular programming to further support residents’ academic, career, and personal development. In addition to advising, students in this community will have a designated lounge in which to study and connect with one another. Living in this community will provide support for students to gain clarity on academic and professional opportunities that align with individual values, strengths, and interests. What are the community expectations? Close relationships with advisors and early career support will be instrumental in setting you up for success at UO and beyond. Although there is no course work associated with this community, residents are expected to meet with an advisor at least once per term and to regularly attend residential community programming. Location Residence Hall: Unthank Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence halls if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact explore@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All first year students who have not identified a specific major are eligible. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.