Your First Year | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Residence Halls Room Types Costs Summer Housing Live-On Requirement Your First Year Your Home at the Center of Campus Living in the heart of campus is not only convenient but also makes your life a bit easier. You can walk anywhere on campus in about 15 minutes which makes getting to class a breeze. Explore Residence Halls Halls Tours Costs Apply A place designed for you However you are making this journey; wherever you are coming from—you are here. And your decision to live with us means you won’t be doing this alone. That’s because in University Housing we honor the efforts that you—and those who believe in you—have made to reach this point. We are here to support you in reaching that next milestone. Tell us where you want to go, and we’ll do everything in our power to get you there. Whatever it takes. We know you are here to make each moment count, to get the most out of your time here, and to reach for every opportunity. Support from someone who cares about you College life can be thrilling, but it can also be unpredictable and challenging. Navigating classes and time with friends while juggling newfound interests and independence takes hard work! Twice per term you’ll meet one-on-one with a student staff member whose top priority is you: how you’re doing, where you’re going, and how you’re getting there. It’s the rare kind of personalized attention we pride ourselves on—and you deserve. Your student staff will be there to support you through everything college life has to throw at you, and they will be the first to celebrate the accomplishments we know you’re going to earn. It's easy for them to connect, because they have been there too. A community where you make the difference Movie night, anyone? Dinner with friends? Perhaps a Smash Bros. tournament is more your speed? Your ideas have a place here. You’ll have the unique, and regular opportunity to connect with others in your residence hall to talk about your community, participate in activities together, or even put on events for everyone to enjoy. Make it simple. Make it epic. Make it what you want it to be. You are a member of a residence hall community, which means together, your potential to shape, impact, and realize is limited only by the boundaries of your collective imaginations. First-Year Students Live On Campus All incoming first-year undergraduate students are required to live on campus . Living on campus for at least your first year is a significant advantage that contributes to your success at the University of Oregon. You will be part of a community and make connections to other students, faculty, and staff. Living on campus also connects you to services that support you as you transition to college life. The University of Oregon recognizes that exceptions to the live-on requirement may be appropriate in certain circumstances and may be requested by an exemption request. American English Institute (AEI) students should contact aeiservices@uoregon.edu for information about housing options for AEI students and additional assistance in applying for housing. Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.