Matthias Vogel | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Matthias Vogel Biography What is your background and areas of interest? I am German by birth and speak German, English, Spanish, French, and am beginning my Italian language learning journey. Speaking of languages: I am the language coordinator for the Department of German and Scandinavian where I train the GEs in language teaching. I also am the director of undergraduate studies in the department and I direct the Global Engagement Academic Residential Community in Global Scholars Hall, where I was faculty in residence from 2018 to 2023. What brought you to the University of Oregon? Love, literally. I met my husband in Germany (thirty years ago) and decided to relocate to Oregon where he was from. How did you get involved with your field? I love languages and language study. I have been involved in undergraduate residential education for almost 30 years. Of course, there is a philosophical dimension to how I came to study and teach languages and literature, but come to my office hours, we’ll have a cup of coffee or tea and I can tell you more about my journey and how it might relate (or not) to yours! What is the best advice you have for a college student? Stay calm and travel on . . . our world is crazy. But things happen and everything will work out. Hurdles are only there to be overcome and I will help you with that. How can students contact you? Email me at matvogel@uoregon.edu or by phone via Teams. Faculty Fellow; Senior Instructor, Department of German and Scandinavian Email matvogel@uoregon.edu Faculty in the Halls Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.