Sustainable Cities and the Public Good | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Sustainable Cities and the Public Good This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Sustainable Cities and the Public Good community? Sponsored by the UO’s School of Planning, Public Policy and Management (PPPM), this ARC gets students involved in creating more sustainable communities, an inherently multi-disciplinary, multi-sector, social-change oriented endeavor. Where and how our communities are designed and function are not fixed, and through the lenses of city planning, public policy, and nonprofit leadership, we will explore how the overlapping issues of climate change, structural inequality, household affordability, social cohesion, public health, and general happiness can be addressed through both the physical design of our communities and the policies and services that help influence and improve community life. We will use evidence-based scholarship to understand issues and engage directly with the community around us, as well as community leaders, to learn how to make actual progress on today’s vexing issues. Throughout all of this, our focus is on the steps that cities can take. This is the century of the city and if we want to fix big things we need to get our cities done right. This ARC will be highly immersive, relate to our current world, and will use the Eugene-Springfield community as a living laboratory of exploration, learning, and fun. While building a community of our own, we will also build community across our region as we explore locations, organizations, and modes of transport to understand how the form and function of a sustainable community could be created. What are the benefits of living in this community? We focus on issues directly relevant to our everyday lives. We have an applied focus, meaning we don’t just dwell on the problems of the world, but explore what can be—and is being—done about them. We will learn by doing. Walking, biking, and transit trips around town will introduce us to local professionals, examples, and the larger area—while having fun. Direct access to PPPM faculty members and staff, as well as faculty members from many different areas of study. Have fun while learning: scavenger hunts, movie nights, and more are all used to have fun, build community, and learn. What are the community expectations? ARC community members are expected to be sincerely interested in improving the quality of the places we live. As such, you are expected to treat other ARC members respectfully, take seriously our engaged activities, help build the quality of the ARC for future members, and to have fun while learning and engaging with some other amazing human beings. In addition to all of that, you will be expected to take two introductory classes in city planning and the nonprofit sector, as well as taking two 2-credit ARC classes your first year where we more informally engage with a variety of issues and topics. Location Residence Hall: Unthank Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact pppmarc@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? Students interested in seeking solutions to some of society’s most pressing challenges such as climate change, social inequity, household affordability, public health, social cohesion, and more should consider this ARC. Students who are action-oriented and want to be part of the solution are welcome to apply to this community. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.