Partnering and Advertising | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Partnering and Advertising Digital Displays (scheduling required) University Housing uses the student playlist for digital displays, this playlist is also used on some screens in the EMU, Rec Center, Holden Center, Career Center, and Dean of Students Office. University Housing does not accept direct submissions for digital displays, please work with your marketing manager to submit to the student playlist. Student Life and Student Services and Enrollment Management (SSEM) partners may submit slide requests via SSEM marketing . Posters (10 day minimum advance submission) Only university-affiliated departments or registered University of Oregon student organizations are permitted to submit posters. To submit posters for approval, fill out the poster request form . Advertising in the residence halls for the 2024–25 academic year includes: posters in the residence halls, dining venues, and one Instagram story the week of your event from the University Housing main account. This is available for fall, winter, and spring term only. All posters need to be delivered to the University Housing front desk (1416 Columbia St., northwest corner of Justice Bean Hall) at least 10 business days before the desired posting date. Total poster quantity is 132, divided by building and labeled and packaged in these quantities. Carson/Carson Dining (9) Global Scholars Hall/Fresh Marketcafé (16) Living Learning Center/DUX Bistro (13) Unthank Hall/PNW Public Market (15) Barnhart Hall/Barnhart Dining and Puddles Café (9) Earl Hall (5) Hamilton Hall (10) Riley Hall (3) New Residence Hall (24) Yasui Hall (10) Justice Bean (18) Instagram story post to be emailed to housocial@uoregon.edu . by Monday at 5:00 p.m. the week of your event. Instagram file (jpg or png) must be 1080 x 1920 pixels at 72 resolution. Posters must be between 8.5 x 11 and 11 x 17 inches in size. Posters must have the department or student organization’s logo or name listed. Posters will be displayed for two weeks. Poster requests will not be accepted the last two weeks (weeks 9 and 10) of a term. To submit requests, or if you have questions about approval, please contact University Housing at housing@uoregon.edu . Table Tents (scheduling required) Table tents are suspended for 2024–25. Please see information above under Posters section for promoting in the halls. Tabling (scheduling required) University Housing offers tabling options to UO student organizations and UO departments. Locations available will be in Global Scholars Hall and Living Learning Center. For more information and reservations, contact UO Catering and Conference Services at 541-346-4303 or catering@uoregon.edu . Public Newspapers Public newspapers and their containers are only allowed in specified, designated areas near public dining spaces: Living Learning Center, Carson, Global Scholars Hall, Barnhart, and Unthank. Any publications placed outside of these designated areas will be removed. Restrictions We will not accept art that we believe reflects poorly on our brand or art that markets outside venues or companies that are in direct competition with University Housing. Submissions must follow university communication standards . University Housing reserves the right to reject artwork that does not reflect the standards. About Us Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.