Cory Olsen | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Cory Olsen Biography What is your background and area of interest within architecture? I have two degrees in interior design from the University of Texas at Austin School of Architecture. Professionally I have worked in a variety of design-related positions including commercial interiors, high-end European kitchens, boutique hotels, and as a custom cabinetmaker. I really enjoy the physical fabrication element of design work, so my primary research exploration centers around furniture design and prototyping. More specifically, my work combines traditional craft methods with digital fabrication technologies like CNC routing, 3D printing, lasers, and robotics. What brought you to the UO? Like many others, the allure of the Pacific Northwest was a huge draw! My dog Scout and I love getting outdoors, whether it’s a quick walk around Alton Baker or a few nights camping well out of cell phone coverage. Growing up in Texas, the idea of having four seasons of weather was also enticing. I’m also very lucky to be part of a very small department of faculty within interior architecture here at the UO. There are just a few of us so the teamwork and camaraderie are really great, plus it is really easy for each of us to have our voices heard. How did you get involved in architecture? Somewhat unintentionally … as an incoming freshman at Texas I had intended to declare into the engineering school. During an open campus orientation session my parents actually encouraged me to check out the school of architecture. They saw the link between the problem solving engineering mindset and my creative artistic side. The scale and size of interiors appealed to me even further because I love to get down to the small details! What’s the best advice you have for a college student? Be more than just your major, even if you don’t think you have time! During my time(s) at Texas I was part of a community service organization, student government, architecture school council, intramural sports teams, a 4600(!) mile cross-country bike team … and many of my best friends came from those other activities. Campus is full of incredible people of all sorts of backgrounds—seek them out! How can students contact you? I can be reached at my email, coryo@uoregon.edu , and I will also plan to do a weekly evening touchdown in Kalapuya Ilihi for informal chats and study hours! Please come say hi when you see me! Faculty Fellow; Assistant Professor of Interior Architecture Email coryo@uoregon.edu Faculty in the Halls Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.