Moving Out | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Moving Out Move-Out Checklist Students must move out of the residence halls within 24 hours of their last final, or by 7:00 p.m. on Friday, June 14, 2024, whichever occurs first. Due to events on campus in Hayward Field beginning June 12, students are advised that parking and loading zones may be limited later in the week. Please plan accordingly. Before move-out: Submit End of Term Plans at My Housing ; print checkout form Donate all unwanted reusable items to Give Before You Go Submit fix-it requests for any needed repairs Review the move-out map for your residence hall: Barnhart and Riley Halls Carson Hall Earl Hall Global Scholars Hall Hamilton Hall Justice Bean Hall Living Learning Center Yasui Hall (formerly New Apartment-Style Hall) New Residence Hall Unthank Hall Day of move-out checklist: Remove all trash and recycling from your room and place in designated locations; do not leave trash in hallways or other public areas (charges may be added to your account) Restore your room to its initial condition at check-in (including furniture set-up) Be sure all residence hall furnishings are accounted for and left in the room (including trash can and recycle bin) Remove all personal belongings (double check all the drawers). Anything left behind after move-out will be immediately disposed of. University Housing does not hold left behind items. Use SpeedPak moving bins from the service center to move items Vacuum or sweep the floor, including underneath the beds Make sure to spend your meal points before you check out Donate or take your bike home Close and lock all windows, open blinds, turn heat and lights completely off Complete your checkout by following the instructions on your checkout form Failure to follow the move-out checklist may result in an improper-check-out fines, there may be charges for cleaning, missing keys or furniture, and damaged property. Summer Storage Whether you are returning to live on campus next year or moving off-campus, University Housing has partnered with Campus Storage to provide you with an option to store your items. Campus Storage offers free pickup and delivery of your boxed belongings, bed, desk, couches, etc., when you make a reservation to store your belongings over summer. If you are interested in using Campus Storage to store your items this summer, you can sign up on the Campus Storage Sign Up Page . How It Works: When you’re ready, you will receive a free pickup of all of your belonging from your residence and the professionals at Campus Storage will transport them to their secure, climate controlled facility for the summer. After summer break, you’ll receive free delivery of all your items to your residence hall room, apartment, or house. You will be billed for the amount of boxes and items (e.g., couches, beds, desks) that Campus Storage stores for you over the summer. For storage pricing, click here . If needed, Campus Storage also provides free delivery of any packing supplies (e.g., boxes, tape, bubble wrap, and duffel bag). Feel free to contact Campus Storage with any questions at info@campusstorage.com . Dining and Meal Points Students will be provided prorated meal points for the final week of the term. When you have completed your check-out, you will no longer have food points available. This includes any rollover points that you may have accumulated throughout the term. Meal plans end on Friday, June 14. Your prorated meal points for finals week will be as follows: Residents with 50 meal points per week will have 43 meal points. Residents with 65 meal points per week will have 56 meal points. Residents with 80 meal points per week will have 69 meal points. Residents with 95 meal points per week will have 81 meal points. Damages and Cleaning If room damage was not present when you checked in, it is considered your liability and you will be charged for it unless you can prove otherwise. Any charges for damage or cleaning in a common area will be divided equally among all students in the floor, hall, or building. Additional cleaning and damage charges may be assessed after check-out. Please review the check-out procedures carefully and talk to your roommate to work out a fair cleaning arrangement. Connect with Us Phone: 541-346-4277 Hours: Monday–Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Email: housing@uoregon.edu Visit Us Justice Bean Hall Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.