Diversity | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Diversity Our Commitment University Housing is dedicated to intentionally creating an organization that actively includes and engages everyone, both generally and with a specific focus on cultural and social identities. Celebrating our diverse community and challenging racism, homophobia, sexism, and other forms of oppression are essential to creating a home where each student can thrive personally, socially, and academically. As an academic community, University Housing is committed to students' education, growth, and learning. We strive to present and honor multicultural perspectives and viewpoints. We expect our staff to challenge students to think critically, socially, and globally about how to create positive changes for a more equitable society. We are also committed to a strong, respectful working environment. Multicultural Organizational Development Framework With guidance from the Division of Student Life Multicultural Organizational Development committee, the University Housing Inclusion Change Team works to advance University Housing's diversity commitment and to move the department along the multicultural organizational development (MCOD) continuum based on the MCOD Development Stage Model (Jackson and Hardiman, 2006) and the Indicators of a Redefining/Multicultural Organization (Obear and Jackson, 2011). This framework allows us to focus on setting diversity, equity, and inclusion goals. Your Voice and Your Thoughts Matter to Us We welcome your ideas on how to create inclusive environments in the residence halls and in Family Housing and University Apartments. Please share your ideas . Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.