Kalapuya Ilihi | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Residence Halls Room Types Costs Summer Housing Live-On Requirement Kalapuya Ilihi Kalapuya Ilihi Kalapuya Ilihi is named in honor of the Kalapuya, the indigenous people of the Willamette Valley. The building is adjacent to the Many Nations Longhouse and features art by Native American artists from the region. Kalapuya Ilihi features a maker-hacker space, study rooms, a large collaboration space, gender inclusive bathrooms, and a community kitchen. This building provides opportunities for students and faculty to come together and collaborate through community spaces and event facilities. Please note: Kalapuya Ilihi is undergoing repairs. It is expected to reopen in fall 2025, complete with all residential communities, academic spaces, and support staff (including a faculty member in residence). Amenities Community kitchen Covered bike racks Laundry in building Maker-hacker space ResNet services Seminar room for students Study and lounge spaces Printer Wi-Fi in all rooms 24/7 on-call staff Room Types Double with Bath Large Double with Bath Large Triple with Bath Triple with Bath Single with bath Double with bath Triple with bath Large triple with bath Beds: twin extra long 36" × 80" Size: 173–340 ft 2 , varies by room type Bed and room configuration may vary Kalapuya Ilihi Communities Kalapuya Ilihi is home to four Academic Residential Communities as well as one Residential Community. The building has spaces like classrooms, offices for faculty advisors, study rooms, studio space, and a community kitchen to help foster the growth of these communities. The four ARCs often collaborate on discussions and projects. Kalapuya Ilihi Location Physical Address 1751 E 17th Ave Eugene, Oregon Mailing Address Student’s full name 63### or 64### 1710 East 15th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403-2264 Service Center Located in the lobby on the first floor of Global Scholars Hall . Go here for mail and packages and a key if you’re locked out. Phone: 541-346-9114 Hours of operation Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.