Sustainability | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Sustainability Green is Who We Are University Housing proudly participates in a wide spectrum of sustainability efforts—from recycling competitions and energy controls to product purchases and general business practices. We strive to make the residence halls environmentally responsible. University Housing Average Waste Diversion Stats 67.8 tons glass, metal, plastic recycled 230.8 tons paper and cardboard recycled 221.6 tons compost and compostables 520.2 tons total waste diverted Student Programs and Education Recycle bins are located in each resident’s room, near each residence hall, and throughout the dining and mail areas. Students can donate unwanted clothing and household items at the end of the year to community organizations in a program called Give Before You Go. They can also donate at Family Housing yard sales. Donated items are made available in thrift stores in the Eugene-Springfield area. Several Academic Residential Communities provide opportunities for students to make a difference on campus and in the community. The Campus Race to Zero Waste program is a popular annual competitions with other institutions. Students can recycle their laundry cards to be used the next year. Dining Service Operations Our dining venues and University Catering focus on in-season goods and local products. They are currently using products from more than 25 local farms. Recycled items such as non-bleached paper napkins are used instead of harmful bleached products whenever available. Water refill stations are available in all dining venues to refill reusable bottles. We encourage students to carry their own water bottles. Our spent fryer oils are collected and converted to biodiesel fuels. We offer menu options that are vegan, vegetarian, or otherwise have a low carbon footprint. We prepare and serve more than 30,000 pounds of tofu annually. Our milk is rBGH-free and comes from Oregon farms. Facility Operations and Green Cleaning We’re in the process of replacing gas-fired water heaters with double-wall, semi-instantaneous steam heaters for more efficient energy use and quicker response time. We continue to replace heating condensate vacuum systems to ensure maximum return and better heat transfer. We use microfiber cloths that remove bacteria without using chemical disinfectants. All major new construction projects meet the goals of the Oregon Model for Sustainable Development , including achieving LEED gold or better certification. They also meet the university’s Advanced Energy Threshold, which has a target of 25 percent higher energy efficiency than is mandated by the current Oregon Energy Code. General Business Practices Consolidate orders when possible to reduce delivery trips to save on packing, fuel, and paperwork. Process orders online and with e-invoices. Purchase recycled goods or goods with recycled content to the greatest extent possible. Purchase computers appliances, and equipment qualified as Energy Star Efficient. Sell or donate surplus or obsolete equipment so it can be reused. Use campus office supply surplus warehouse. Provide networked copiers for document sharing via scan and send technology. Purchase locally when reasonable. Include language on contracts requesting that vendors use recycled materials or sustainable practices to the greatest extent possible. Include rigorous sustainability criteria in soft furnishings request for proposals (RFPs). Resources UO Office of Sustainability UO Student Sustainability Center UO Bike Program and PeaceHealth Rides bike program Provost’s Enviroment Initiative Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.