Global Engagement | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Global Engagement This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Global Engagement community? The Global Engagement community is an active, hands-on learning and research environment that allows you to engage with diverse cultures, languages, histories, and lifeways across the world. Our paths of study lead to many options for real-world careers in such areas as migration and refugee studies, food studies, global health, world cinema, digital media, gender and economic development, and culture and aesthetics. We explore issues through an interdisciplinary curriculum, innovative language learning, and abundant opportunities outside the classroom. Why should I choose to live in this community? Whether you are interested in business, political science, global studies, journalism, language, linguistics, or any other area of study, the Global Engagement ARC will assist you in creating a complete academic, social, and cultural experience by helping you map out your future academic and career path. Enthusiasm and curiosity are the only requirements. Our community provides holistic advising and connections with faculty and staff around unique research opportunities. You can present your research at the Undergraduate Research Symposium, you’ll receive help with planning your study abroad, applying for scholarships and internships. This community welcomes you. No matter what you hope to achieve, the Global Engagement ARC is a great place to begin the journey. What courses will we take? UGST 111: Global Engagement ARC Seminar (fall, winter, spring) Language and/or area courses of your choice (fall, winter, spring) at your proficiency level Location Residence Hall: Global Scholars Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact gearc@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All first-year students are eligible. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.