Derek Brandow | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Derek Brandow Biography Background and areas of interest: I currently work with the advertising faculty in the SOJC, and my background has always been education. I have taught and upper level course for the past five years called Confidence in the SOJC. It has been received very well by students and faculty. What we do in this class expresses my interests when it comes to creating experiences for students. I am interested in students recognizing and believing in the truth of their being versus believing in the worthiness they are offered from a “like” button on social media. I want to see students be true to themselves. The end of one of my favorite quotes sums my interest up well. It’s by a woman named Marianne Williamson in a poem called, “Our Deepest Fear.” She ends with “And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.” What brought you to the University of Oregon? A lovely conversation on the patio of Vero Espresso House with Deb Morrison, two Americanos, and a labradoodle. She needed someone to teach Confidence (her “secret weapon”). After our conversation, she looked at me and said, “you’re my guy.” How did you get involved in your field? I've followed the professional path that resonates from the core of who I am. I am a teacher/mentor/coach. That is my gift. Thankfully, over the past five years, there have been opportunities presented to allowed for this gift to fly high. What is the best advice you have for a college student? It is easier, more sustainable, a happier ending to be who you are versus who you think “they” want you to be. I defer back to the Marianne Williamson quote. You belong. You are worthy of love and acceptance. Your voice matters. We need you. You are so much more than what you do. Listen. Learn. Be kind to yourself. Faculty Fellow; Instructor of Confidence, Advertising, School of Journalism and Communication Email dbrandow@uoregon.edu Faculty in the Halls Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.