Unthank Hall | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Residence Halls Room Types Costs Summer Housing Live-On Requirement Unthank Hall DeNorval Unthank Jr. Unthank Hall has common spaces dedicated to the academic life of UO students, including classrooms, faculty meeting spaces, study areas, a living space for the faculty member in residence, and dedicated spaces for academic residential communities. There is also a community kitchen, the PNW Public Market—with nine unique dining venues—and the Duck’s House restaurant. Amenities Community kitchen Covered bike racks Laundry in building ResNet services Printer Study and lounge spaces Wi-Fi in all rooms 24/7 on-call staff Room Types Double with Bath Large Double with Bath Large Triple with Bath Single with Bath Triple with Bath Beds: twin extra long 36" × 80" Size: 129–275 ft2, varies by room type Bed and room configuration may vary Learning Commons and Communities Unthank Hall is home to two new academic residential communities (ARCs) and two new residential communities. Vibrant communal space on the mezzanine level is designed to support residential student academic and social success. This space serves a variety of needs, including study spaces, ARC teaching and social spaces, and faculty offices. Unthank Hall provides an environment dedicated to blending the living and learning experience. Women in Science and Math ARC Sustainable Cities and the Public Good ARC First-Generation Residential Community First-Year Explorers Unthank Hall Dining The PNW Public Market is a wonderful mix of delicious, local, and chef-driven food venues on the ground floor. It provides campus with nine distinct dining venues with a mix of dine-in and take-out food options. The Duck’s House is a public restaurant that celebrates the traditions, spirit, and energy of UO sports—honoring past UO athletic traditions and building new ones. Explore PNW Public Market Student Welcome Center The first floor is home to the university’s prospective student welcome center, designed to showcase the very best the University of Oregon has to offer its incoming Ducks. This center has display spaces, model residence hall rooms, meeting spaces, and a large presentation room. It is also headquarters for tour guides and a starting point for campus tours. Unthank Hall Location Physical Address 1451 Agate Street Eugene, Oregon, 97403 Mailing Address Student’s full name 63### or 64### 1710 East 15th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403-2271 Service Center Located in Global Scholars Hall . Go here for mail and packages and a key if you’re locked out. Phone: 541-346-9114 Hours of operation Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.