Honors College | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Honors College What is the Robert D. Clark Honors College Community? This is a community designed for students to dive into the dynamic community within the Clark Honors College (CHC), including opportunities to connect with a CHC peer mentor, interact with CHC faculty members, and participate in CHC exclusive events and programs—in addition to forming connections with other honors students. Clark Honors College students have an academic home in Chapman Hall and a residential home in the New Residence Hall, which offers a variety of living and learning spaces. Some Clark Honors College classes, especially those most often attended by first year students, may be held in classrooms in the New Residence Hall, and both academic and social events take place within the residence hall throughout each term. Why should I choose to live in this community? Choosing the Residential Community for the Clark Honors College puts you in a living environment with fellow honors college students, many of whom will be taking the same first-year courses as you. Returning students serving as resident assistants in the community are also students in the honors college. They are a wonderful source of information and can provide tips and tricks on how to balance social activities with your workload. This community focuses on providing honors students with increased access to academic resources, as well as supporting the development of well-rounded individuals through social programming. Location Residence Hall: New Residence Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact honors@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? Only students who have been admitted to the Clark Honors College may be a part of this residential community (RC) in the New Residence Hall. Please note that honors college students are not required to live in the RC. They may choose to apply to other communities or live elsewhere on campus. If you are interested in the Clark Honors College Residential Community: Register for University Housing and complete your application. Ensure that you have been admitted into the Clark Honors College. For more information about applying to the honors college and the decision timeline, you can visit the Clark Honors College website . Honors college students will opt into the residential community via the roommate selection process, in the My Housing portal. If you are interested in living with other honors college students, be sure to join the Honors College Residential Community in the New Residence Hall. If you are part of another ARC or RC, you will be required to leave that community before opting to live in the honors college community. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.