David McCormick | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls David McCormick Biography Background and areas of interest? I am the director of the Institute of Neuroscience, so all things related to the mind and brain!  My wife, Lanch, is Director of Student Engagement and we both love being involved in student life.  I am also a teacher of mindfulness meditation.  We are the parents of Sasha, the Samoyed dog.  I will be bringing her to campus on occasion, so come pet her! What brought you to the University of Oregon? The University of Oregon has a great neuroscience community and I am excited to have joined it.  In addition, we have always loved the Pacific Northwest, especially Oregon. How did you get involved in academic advising? Before moving to the University of Oregon, I lived as a resident fellow with 400 students in a residential college.  I greatly enjoyed interacting with the students and advising freshman on course selection and life at the university. What’s the best advice you have for a college student? A happy life takes thought and planning, without obsessing over it.  Take care of yourself.  Sleep well, eat well, get exercise, and socialize in addition to academic studies.  Keep your mind open and explore.  Try out many of the things that UO has to offer, but also make sure you do well in your chosen interests.  Balance is the key word! How can students contact you? Students are welcomed to email me at davidmc@uoregon.edu . If you would like to chat, visit my lab, or visit Sasha, let me know! Faculty Fellow; Professor, Biology; Director, Institute of Neuroscience Email davidmc@uoregon.edu Faculty in the Halls Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.