Health Sciences | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Health Sciences This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Health Sciences community? The ARC is designed to support students in pursuing health careers in three main ways. First, the ARC builds community among students, staff, and faculty at UO, connecting people around a shared interest in health and well-being. This includes helping students to connect to other students, assisting them in getting involved in undergraduate research, and making them aware of engagement opportunities such as volunteering and study abroad. Second, the ARC is designed to help students understand the range of career options available in the health sciences by connecting them with clinicians and researchers in health science fields, as well as to students training to pursue those careers. Guests include current UO students and recent graduates, as well as UO faculty and staff and local health providers such as physicians, nurses, and physical therapists. Finally, the ARC examines the state of the science on how to live a long and healthy life, with particular attention to diet, exercise, sleep, the built environment, and chronic psychosocial stress. It also focuses on how students can apply this knowledge to their own lives, aiming for the establishment of healthy patterns that can be continued throughout their lives. What courses will we take? Complete the UGST ARC seminar classes fall and winter (total of 4 credits). Location Residence Hall: Earl Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? The Health Sciences ARC is designed for students interested in pursuing careers in health care or health-related fields, and who wish to engage with faculty, staff, and students from across the campus community on issues related to health and wellness. These health science careers include biomedical research, medicine, nursing, pharmacology, veterinary medicine, epidemiology/public health, among others. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.