Nutrition and Dietary Needs | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Nutrition and Dietary Needs Whether you have a gluten intolerance, lactose intolerance, allergy, or anything else that requires some extra attention when it comes to food, there are a variety of food options that will work for you. We encourage you to contact us if you need assistance. Eat Smart, Eat Well— UO Nutrition Calculator Check out the UO Nutrition Calculator . With all of the amazing dining options and wide variety of foods, you may feel confused about how to pick healthy, nutritious meals. We understand that choosing what to eat and making sure you get enough variety on campus can seem like an overwhelming task, especially when all you want to do is eat Fresh’s Killer Mac and Cheese every day! Luckily, we make it a priority to provide you with lots of healthy and nutritious options as well, so you don’t have to look too far or feel like you’re alone on this adventure. Dietary Needs Most of our menu items list ingredients and information on labels or on the nutrition calculator, but there are times you might need to ask a chef. Because many dishes are made in the area where gluten has been prepared or used in recipes, we cannot guarantee housemade options are 100 percent gluten-free, but our staff members work incredibly hard to make sure that our “made without gluten” options meet that promise. If you have a high sensitivity to gluten, you are welcome to meet with our chefs or our director of dining services to develop a menu that will work for you. Dietary Accommodations If you know you will be coming to the University of Oregon needing a food accommodation, please contact us prior to your arrival so that we can build options with you before you even get here. Contact either Tom Driscoll, director of food services, at driscoll@uoregon.edu , or Lynn Alvarez, assistant director of residential dining, at lynna@uoregon.edu . If you develop a food need while you are at the university or didn’t contact us prior to your arrival, you can work with any of our head chefs to build a plan for their dining venue. Please contact University Housing at 541-346-4277 or housing@uoregon.edu . For disability-related requests please contact the Accessible Education Center at 541-346-1155, or uoaec@uoregon.edu . Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.