Communities | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Communities Discover Your Community At the UO, on-campus living is about creating meaningful connections with a community that inspires you. As you register for housing, we invite you to explore our residential opportunities and find a community that fits your interests or identity. Explore Communities In our Academic Residential Communities (ARCs) and Residential Communities (RCs) you’ll room with peers who share your interests, passions, or identities—all led by faculty and staff in the same field, with access to resources to support your academic journey on campus. Our ARCs and RCs are open to students at no extra cost—explore our community options below and apply to one of our communities through My Housing . Frequently Asked Questions Community Benefits Our Academic Residential Communities (ARCs) are designed to integrate academic and residential life at the UO. Research has shown that living in an on-campus community has several positive benefits for students: Academic Performance: Students in on-campus communities tend to perform better academically due to close-knit academic and social support systems. Increased Retention: A sense of belonging and engagement at the University contributes to higher retention rates—students in on-campus communities are more likely to stay at the university and graduate on time. Enhanced Social Connections: Living in a community with peers who share similar interests, identities, and goals can lead to stronger social connections, both academically and personally, leading to a more fulfilling college experience. Faculty Interaction: Our ARCs offer increased interaction with faculty members through specific programming, events, and coursework. Students are able to pursue academic and career guidance with fewer barriers. For more information about student success outcomes contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Hear from ARC Students All of my work from the year with this ARC has prepared me to make the most out of my undergraduate career and really make a lasting impact in my community. —Environmental Leaders ARC Student My experience in the ARC provided a good foundation for the rest of my college career in all aspects, especially academics. I’ve met so many friends, so many people I’m going to continue to have relationships with. I’m really glad I was part of the ARC. —Latinx Scholars ARC Student The ARC community is where I feel comfortable receiving help, making connections, and sharing interests. Without it, I wouldn’t have found my best friend, favorite advisor, and activities such as Flight School and Women in Business. —Business ARC Student Academic Residential Communities Live and learn in a community centered around a shared interest or identity, taking one–two classes together per term. Art ARC Astro ARC Business Environmental Leaders Global Engagement Health Sciences Latinx Scholars LGBTQIA+ Scholars Media and Social Action Native American and Indigenous Studies Performing Artists Collective Placemakers Sustainable Cities and the Public Good Thrive: Healthy Living Umoja Black Scholars Women in Science and Math Residential Communities Live in a community centered around a shared interest or identity and enjoy out-of-classroom connections. Ballmer Institute for Children’s Behavioral Health Creative Practice Community First-Generation Community First-Year Explorers Flying V Community: Substance Free Gender Expansive Community Home Flight Scholars Honors College Transfer Scholars Academic Support A team of advisors and faculty here to help you succeed any time you need extra help. Learn about Academic Support Join a Housing Community Want to join an Academic Residential Community or a community designed for you? Just select the communities you are interested in when you register for housing. Once you are admitted to the university, you can fill out your housing registration online. Register for Housing Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.