Ballmer Institute for Children’s Behavioral Health | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Ballmer Institute for Children’s Behavioral Health This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Ballmer Institute Residential Community? The Ballmer Institute community is designed for students interested in improving the child mental health system. Students interested in the child behavioral health major will learn more about our workforce innovation, child behavioral health specialists. These bachelor’s-level mental health professionals will be trained to engage in early identification of behavioral health concerns, provide universal supports to promote well-being in all youth, and deliver early interventions to prevent the onset and progression of mental health concerns. Students in this community have the opportunity to live together in the New Residence Hall with other pre-majors and have access to exclusive academic and social events—including a trip to the Ballmer Institute at the UO’s NE Portland campus. Why should I choose to live in this community? If you are interested in expanding equitable access to high-quality, evidence-based youth behavioral health support, this is the community for you! This first of its kind academic training program aims to transform the youth behavioral health care system and this community provides an opportunity for you to connect with other students who strive to make a difference in child behavioral health. Participating in the community has numerous benefits including an onsite academic and career advisor; regular programming to support your academic, career, and personal development; and dedicated space in which to study and connect with other students. Living in this community will prepare you for the transition to the Ballmer Institute at the UO’s NE Portland campus. What are the community expectations? Although there is no course work associated with this community, residents are expected to meet with an advisor at least once per term and to regularly attend residential community programming. Location Residence Hall: New Residence Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence halls if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact ballmerinstsitute@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All pre-children’s behavioral health majors living on campus are encouraged to apply. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.