Internet Setup | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Internet Setup The University of Oregon provides both wireless and wired internet for University Housing residents. Wireless Students should use the campus-wide UO Secure wireless network. Log in to this or any other UO campus network with your Duck ID and password. If you do not have these or are unsure, please contact the Information Services Technology Service Desk (Tech Desk). Routers are not allowed in the residence halls. Having a router in an area with wireless coverage is against university policy as it can lead to degradation of the campus network, even when unregistered. Note: Any device (computer, game console, smart tv, etc.) plugged directly in to an Ethernet wall port must be registered for use on the campus network at ise-guest.uoregon.edu . Connecting to UO Secure (Preferred Method) Select the “UO Secure” network from the list of wireless networks on your device. Enter your Duck ID and password (associated with your UO email address). Click “OK” to any prompts. Once connected, you should not have to log in again until your password changes. Wired Connecting to the UO Network Locate the Ethernet port on the wall in your residence hall room Locate the Ethernet port on your computer or device Some laptops (especially Apple laptops) do not have an Ethernet port. ResNet has Ethernet adapters available to purchase ) Connect your Ethernet cable to an Ethernet port. ( ResNet has Ethernet cables available for purchase ) Register the computer for use on the campus network at ise-guest.uoregon.edu . Registration lets us know who is responsible for a device. This allows us to notify the owner if an issue arises, such as a malware infection. Notification is often by email and/or network quarantine. How Do I Manually Register a Device? Upon logging into the Resnet Devices Portal, ise-guest.uoregon.edu , you would select ADD on the Manage Devices page. You will need to enter a unique Device Name (My Laptop, Xbox, etc.) so that you can recognize your device. You will then need to enter the MAC address in the Device ID field. Please remember to use the WIRED MAC address using colons (:) not dashes (-). You may enter a description, however, it is not required. After submitting your device information, you will be returned to the Manage Devices page. After a few moments your device will appear in the list with a pending status. By selecting a device on the Manage Devices page, you have the option to report the device as stolen or lost. You may also edit the description, or delete the device. ResNet Connecting Devices - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Contact ResNet Services Phone: 541-346-4223 Hours: Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Submit Service Request Visit Us 1029 Justice Bean Hall Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.