Housing Blog | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Housing Blog How Ducks Live Living on campus adds value to the UO student experience and puts you in the middle of it all: fun, friends, food, and academic resources that will give you the best possible start to your college career. Whether you are a current resident or a prospective student, stay connected and learn about University Housing’s student-centered living-learning experiences and how to get the most out of your time in the residence halls. Search Keywords Sep 26 Bed Lofting Information Beds in some of our buildings and room types have the ability to be lofted, which means raising the bed to a height between 50 and 60 inches. This gives students additional floor space. If students are assigned to a double, single, or suite-style room in Barnhart Hall, Earl Hall, Global Scholars Hall, or Justice Bean Hall, they can submit the Loft Request in My Housing starting after move-in. Students will receive an email later this summer with the date and time of when the Loft Request will open. These requests are a first-come, first-served process as there are limited kits available. Jul 26 Preparing for Move-In Unpack the Quack is Thursday, September 26, and Friday, September 27 We are excited to share with you that the primary move-in days for fall 2024 are Thursday, September 26, and Friday, September 27! You will be assigned a move-in date and time by early September. Please do not book travel before you receive your assigned move-in date and time or ensure that it is easily changeable or refundable. Here is some additional information for you as you prepare for move-in. Apr 14 Getting around the UO For those coming to campus and living in the residence halls in the fall, you may be wondering about how you can get around Eugene, whether or not you should bring a car, and if people ride bikes! Here are a few fun facts you should know about Eugene before we dive in to how you can get around: Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.