Latinx Scholars | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Latinx Scholars What is the Comunidad de Latinx Scholars? The Latinx (Latina/Latino) Academic Residential Community aims to create and promote a positive and supportive space that eases your transition as first year students into University of Oregon life, while empowering you to become prominent campus leaders. The term Latinx (pronounced “lə•tee'•nex”) is an inclusive term that represents the singular and plural forms. It is used to describe people, not things.  It is sometimes used as an umbrella term to include Latin-Americans (regardless of country of origin), Mexican-Americans, Central Americans, Chicanx, or Hispanics. It is also a gender inclusive term, encompassing all genders including non-binary identified individuals. Through connections to other students with similar interests and/or cultural backgrounds and connections to faculty and academic support on campus, you can shape your intellectual journey while changing the face of the university. The Latinx Scholars ARC and its theme creates a common bond for all residents—Latinx and non-Latinx alike—that will foster cross-cultural understanding. Why should I choose to live in this community? Have an opportunity for Latinx scholars to explore connections and build community Be part of a network of culturally sensitive faculty members, administrators, and fellow students Find courses that support your interests in Latinx-themed studies or Latinx identity Access the rich variety of opportunities available at the UO such as Tarea Time (homework/study hours), cultural events, and academic support Access the rich variety of academic, cultural, research, and leadership opportunities at the UO Benefit from mentorship opportunities from faculty members, staff, and students at the UO What classes will we take? ES 101 (Introduction to Ethnic Studies). You will take this course fall term and be in a discussion group with others from the ARC to facilitate shared understanding. UGST 111 (Latinx ARC Seminar) fall, winter, and spring terms (total of 4 credits). These courses combined count toward a core education requirement. The Latinx ARC Seminar course is taught in English. Students are also encouraged to take one additional course from a curated list each term. The additional course counts toward the Latinx studies minor. Location Residence Hall: Justice Bean Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? We encourage applications from students who identify as Latinx or Latinx allies. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.