Connecting Devices | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Connecting Devices How to Manually Register your Device Use an Ethernet cable to plug your device into an active port and turn on the device. Follow the instructions for your gaming console or Smart TV to find the wired MAC address for your device. A “pending” message may appear. Ignore this message. Note: All registrations expire after one year. Game Console and Smart TV All devices that connect via wired network must be registered by MAC address at ise-guest.uoregon.edu . Many game consoles, smart TVs, and other devices need to be manually registered to use a wired network connection because the devices lack web-based authentication protocols. Residents that are living in University Housing Apartments and Family Housing who have a router will not need to manually register their device. Simply connect the device to the router and follow the protocol steps. Routers, however, must be registered at ise-guest.uoregon.edu . Wireless Devices Manual registration is for wired devices only. If your device has wireless capability and does not have a protocol issue please connect normally through UO Secure. Connect to UO Secure . Wireless Printers Wireless printers are becoming extremely common, so much so that it is almost impossible today to buy a home printer without wireless function included. Due to security limitations, printers (with the wireless function enabled) are not allowed on University of Oregon’s network. This is due to two factors: An unsecured printer on the wireless network would be discoverable, and available for printing, from any other device connected to the network. Wireless printers distribute a wireless signal to allow devices like phones to connect to them and print. UO WAPs (wireless access points) on campus have a "smart feature" that causes them to back off any foreign signal introduced into their radius. This means that wireless printers, when broadcasting their signal, will cause the University’s wireless signal (UO Secure or UO Wireless) to have less connectivity in that printer's radius, degrading the signal strength for all wireless users. Printers with built-in wireless must have the wireless function disabled. Please consult your user manual on how to turn off your printer’s wireless function. All printers should have the ability to physically connect using a USB cable. If your wireless printer did not come with a cable, we sell them at the ResNet store . ResNet Connecting Devices - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Contact ResNet Services Phone: 541-346-4223 Hours: Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Submit Service Request Visit Us 1029 Justice Bean Hall Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.