Admitted Students | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Admitted Students Your Campus Home Welcome to the flock! Learn more about how Ducks live by exploring our residence halls virtually, connecting with us in a one-on-one meeting, and taking the next steps to register for housing. Explore our digital housing brochure online . Explore Our Residence Halls Residence Halls Learn more about our residence halls by exploring their amenities, room types, and experience the hall yourself through online video tours. Residence Halls Room Types With several different room types, there are a lot of options to find the best fit for your living experience. Check out our 360-degree tours of every space. Rooms Discover Your Community Want a living experience that fits with your major, your identity, or your interests? There are communities that can help you get even more out of your experience living on campus. You have the opportunity to live in an Academic Residential Community and join like-minded students in a shared courses, projects, and activities centered around a subject you’re passionate about. You can also choose to join a Residential Community and live with students who share your identity or values. Communities Register for Housing Housing registration for admitted students is now open! You do not need to commit to the UO to register for housing. The earlier you sign up, the more options you will have when selecting a room. Register for Housing Once you have been offered admission to the UO, register for housing in the My Housing portal. Use the UO ID Login option and then register (create an account) on the My Housing portal using the 95# in the email you are sent within two weeks of being admitted. Sign your contract and pay the $350 initial housing payment and $50 non-refundable registration fee. Research your housing and dining options . Browse and request roommates starting in June in your My Housing portal. Select your room! You will be assigned a room selection date and time based on you and your roommate's registration dates and if you are in a community. Important Dates for 2024–25 Mid-December: Housing registration opens. May: Create roommate profile June 1: Last day to cancel housing registration and receive 100 percent refund of $350 initial housing payment June: Roommate browsing and requests Mid–July: Room selection for all students July 31: Last day to file an exemption to the live-on requirement ​​​​​ Late-September: Fall move in Dates subject to change. All first-time, full-time students coming to UO directly from high school who have completed their residence hall registration will have a University Housing living space. If you do not see an available space, please check My Housing regularly. Non-freshman students (which would include returning, transfer, exchange, visiting, and American English Institute students) starting at the UO this fall and looking to live on campus for 2024–25 academic year are invited to register for housing at housing.uoregon.edu/myhousing . Registration begins in mid-December. We anticipate spaces for non-first-time full-time students will be limited. There will be an interest wait list if capacity is reached. The interest wait list will be used as spaces become available, with priority based on earliest registration date. Those who have not been offered a residence hall assignment by August 15, 2024, will be asked if they would like to remain on the list. The open room selection process will close July 31, 2024. After that, room assignments will be made for those who do not yet have a room assignment and will be viewable in My Housing . Frequently Asked Housing Registration Questions Do I have to be committed to the UO in order to register for housing? No, you can still be making your decision on whether or not to become a Duck. If your plans change, you can cancel your housing registration by June 1 and get a full refund of the initial housing payment. When am I assigned my room and roommate? You will get to select your own room in July! Registering early will give you more options and priority when it comes time for room selection. You will be able to select any residence hall or room available at that time. Roommate browsing and requests opens in June. More information will be sent to you when we invite you to create your roommate profile in May. You can request someone you already know, browse roommates that match with you based on your answers to the lifestyle questions in the housing registration, or browse roommates based on a specific lifestyle question. Are first year students required to live on campus? All first-year students at the UO live on campus . Living on campus for at least your first year is a significant advantage that contributes to your success at the University of Oregon. You will be part of a community and make connections with other students, faculty, and staff. Living on campus also connects you to services that support you as you transition to college life. Studies show that first-year full-time students who live on campus have higher GPAs, stay in school in higher numbers, and graduate faster. If I am in an Academic Residential Community or Residential Community, does my roommate also have to be in that same community? Yes, living in a community means your roommate must also be a part of that same community. Can I defer the $350 initial housing payment? Students who qualify and choose to waive their admission application fee may also choose to defer their initial housing payment—this means the $350 initial housing payment will go to your fall term bill and may be covered by financial aid or scholarships. For those who qualify, an option to defer will be included in the online payment registration process. Deferrals have the same financial commitment as payments and must follow the same cancellation guidelines. Please contact University Housing for more information. Other Resources What’s to Eat? All students who live on campus choose one of five residential meal plans that let you eat the way that’s right for you. Whatever your mood, you can always find the fresh food you want at our 14 unique dining venues. Our chefs are available to work with students individually who may have special dietary needs. Review Meal Plans Your Support Team Our residence halls are designed to enhance your experience living on campus. We have live-in faculty members and faculty fellows who hold special events and office hours in the halls. There are community kitchens, music rooms, and a makerspace. In short, we’ll make sure you have the support you need as a Duck. Explore Academic Support Stay Connected See how Ducks live by checking out our Housing Blog or following us on social media @uohousing. Have questions? Contact us Monday–Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Pacific time, by emailing us at housing@uoregon.edu, or calling or texting 541-346-4277. Go to Housing Blog Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.