Earl Hall | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Residence Halls Room Types Costs Summer Housing Live-On Requirement Earl Hall Earl Hall Located in the center of campus near the Student Recreation Center and the student union building . Earl residents enjoy a prime location to stay fit and play outdoor sports. Earl is connected to Straub Hall, an academic building with exciting new classroom technology, study spaces, and community areas. Earl has multi-gendered floors and open study and TV lounges. It is also home to the LGBTQIA+ Scholars Academic Residential Community. Amenities Classroom space Community kitchen Covered bike parking Laundry ResNet services Study and lounge spaces Wi-Fi in all rooms 24/7 on-call staff Room Types Double Single Small Single Beds: twin regular 36" × 75" Size: 122–144 ft 2 , varies by room type Bed and room configuration may vary Earl Hall Communities Students interested in healthy living and health sciences will find communities with like-minded classmates in Earl Hall, which is located close the student rec center and the Department of Human Physiology at Esslinger Hall. The members of the LGBTQIA+ Scholars community share intellectual and social experiences focused on understanding of and respect for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, and allied identities, histories, and practices. Adjacent to the LGBTQIA+ community is the Gender Expansive Community, housing students who do not wish to conform to the gender binary of male or female. Residents in this community can choose to share a room with a student of any gender identity or biological sex. The Gender Expansive Community does not have the shared course work or academic components of an Academic Residential Community. Earl Hall Location Physical Address 1333 East 15th Ave Eugene, Oregon 97403 Mailing Address Student’s full name 60### or 61### 1410 Agate Street Eugene, OR 97403 Service Center Located at the New Residence Hall . Go here for mail and packages and a key if you’re locked out. Phone: 541-346-5266 Hours of operation Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.