Scott Fisher | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Scott Fisher Biography Area of tutoring expertise: Astronomy What brought you to the University of Oregon? At the UO, I saw an opportunity to take a new approach to teaching astronomy at a large liberal arts school. Our observatory, Pine Mountain, was also a big draw; I hope to see improvements there and make it a major resource for all students. I also like Eugene and the Pacific Northwest. Oh, having a great football team and strong athletics doesn’t hurt, either. How did you get involved in physics and astronomy? I’ve always been the ‘science-y’ guy that liked building things and working with computers, and I was good—but not great—at math. As a freshman, I planned to do engineering, but I switched to physics. I was a senior physics major when I took my first astronomy class, and it interested me so much that I doubled my major to pursue astronomy as well, and I never looked back. After graduate school, I got a job at the fourth largest telescope in the world and worked there for most of my career before I came to Oregon. What’s the best advice you have for a college student? Come to college prepared to be proactive about your education. Don’t passively wait around for things to happen; you have make it happen. Engage in all aspects of your time and experience here. From classes and learning, to friends and fun, you will gain the most if you come here ready to go for it. How can students contact you? Visit me in Living-Learning Center North 108 on Wednesdays from 3:00–5:00 p.m. and in the Community Director office on Fridays from 1:00–3:00 p.m. Email me at rsf@uoregon.edu , but beware, I typically have a significant backlog to deal with. I hold regular office hours in Willamette Hall, too, and might host a lunchtime roundtable discussion that is open to everyone a few times a week. Faculty Fellow; Astronomy Lecturer and Outreach Coordinator, Physics Email rsf@uoregon.edu Faculty in the Halls Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.