Placemakers | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Placemakers What is the Placemakers community? The Placemakers Academic Residential Community (ARC) is a group of students dedicated to the creation of more equitable, sustainable, and livable human and non-human communities through the field of environmental design. Why should I choose to live in this community? Design is a process of discovery, characterized by questioning, creating, testing, and evaluating. Students who choose to live in the Placemakers ARC will learn how to create environments that fulfill human needs and potential, while being ecologically responsible and socially just. The program combines professional training with a social science lens, preparing you for the rapidly-evolving world of design. As part of the Placemakers ARC, you will live in community with other students interested in changing the world, take courses targeted at furthering your first-year experience, and connect with faculty and advisors to help you pick your path. What are the community expectations? Students in this community will live together in Justice Bean Hall and take several courses together throughout their first year: UGST 112: Placemakers ARC Seminar (4 credits total. Fall: 2 credits. Winter: 2 credits) Two elective courses in the areas of design, sustainability, and/or public planning (4 credits each, course offerings change each year) Location Residence Hall: TBA. Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? While priority is given to students majoring in Environmental Design , all students with an interest in design, sustainability, technology, architecture, and/or climate advocacy are encouraged to apply. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.