Unpack the Quack | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Unpack the Quack Volunteer to Be a Mover Volunteer to Be a Greeter Help Ducks Move Every year, hundreds of students, faculty, and staff of the University of Oregon volunteer to help the incoming class move into the residence halls as a part of Unpack the Quack (UPQ). We are excited to continue this tradition this fall, and are hoping for record numbers of volunteers to help us get all our new Ducks on campus. Volunteering This valuable UO tradition will be open to all students, staff, faculty, and community members. If you are available longer, you can volunteer for more than one shift when you register. UO staff members should check with their supervisors to determine whether departmental operations will allow time away from work and whether it will qualify as paid or unpaid release time. All volunteers may discuss their role on campus in conversation when asked by a student, but absolutely no recruitment, solicitation, or advertising (e.g., distributing fliers) is permitted during the event. The purpose of UPQ is to welcome students to the UO community and to help them navigate the transition to campus. Once you have signed up, please continue to check your email for updates and other important information. If you need to change any of your information or shift preferences after you register, you can contact our office at housing@uoregon.edu or 541-346-4277. Information for Volunteers All UPQ volunteers will receive a UPQ t-shirt upon check-in. Once the UPQ volunteer checks in they will be given a nametag and an assignment for their shift. Please wear comfortable, closed-toed shoes. We recommend that you do not bring any bags, purses or valuables, as we will not be able to securely store them for you. In order to have space for unloading zones, we’re asking all members of campus to consider alternative modes of transportation to campus on move-in day. However, if you need to drive, we recommend parking west of University Street. UPQ volunteer headquarters is located in Global Scholars Hall (GSH) room 123. Volunteers should access UPQ headquarters from the exterior doors to room 123, off the fire lane on the west side of GSH. Some volunteers will be assigned to Barnhart Hall and can check in for their shift at the Barnhart service center. Your confirmation email will provide your shift location. There will be snacks and drinks at UPQ headquarters. Duties Volunteer movers will be assisting incoming Ducks by moving belongings out of their vehicles and into their rooms. Volunteer movers may be students, faculty, staff, or community members. UPQ volunteers who sign up for at least one shift will receive a meal voucher at the end of their shift. This meal voucher can be used at any University Dining venue on items valued up to five points. The voucher will expire within a few days after UPQ so we recommend using it after your shift. Student volunteers who live on campus and move in earlier than September 26 will receive credit for one night of their early arrival fee. Volunteer greeters will assist students and families with wayfinding on campus. During their shift, they may be asked to hold signs, stand, or sit. There will be a limited number of greeters, who will be either faculty or staff members. Face Coverings Welcome The UO supports the personal choice to wear a face covering as an effective strategy for individuals seeking to protect themselves from COVID-19. We encourage anyone who wishes to wear a face covering to do so. Face coverings are welcome though optional in most indoor spaces on the UO campus. Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.