Global Scholars Hall | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Residence Halls Room Types Costs Summer Housing Live-On Requirement Global Scholars Hall Global Scholars Hall Located on the east side of campus, Global Scholars Hall has multi-gendered floors and houses a learning commons and a live-in faculty member. The main level of this building features classroom spaces, a demonstration kitchen, music practice rooms, study areas, and a dining area. Amenities Elevator Classroom spaces Community kitchen Learning commons Laundry in building Moveable furniture in rooms Music practice rooms ResNet services Printer Secured bike cages Study and lounge spaces Wi-Fi in all rooms 24/7 on-call staff Room Types 2 Person Suite with Bath 4 Person Suite with Bath 6 Person Suite with Bath Double with Bath Double with Sink Single with Bath Single with Sink Triple with Sink Beds: twin extra long 36" × 80" Size: 131–319 ft 2 , varies by room type Bed and room configuration may vary Global Scholars Hall Communities The Global Engagement Academic Residential Community benefits from the use of the classrooms, the great room, and the study spaces in Global Scholars Hall. This community also uses the test kitchen to showcase foods from the cultures and languages. While repairs are being made to Kalapuya Ilihi , Global Scholars Hall is also temporary home to the Native American and Indigenous Studies ARC and the Home Flight Scholars Residential Community. Center for Undergraduate Research and Engagement (CURE) If you want to get involved in research—even as early as your first year on campus—stop by the CURE advising office located in the Global Scholars Hall commons area. Drop-in advising on undergraduate research opportunities and distinguished scholarships is available Monday–Thursday 4:00–6:00 p.m. Stop by and get to know Josh Snodgrass, Lanch McCormick , and Karl Reasoner. Fresh Marketcafé A master of variety, Fresh is a go-to for just about any type of cuisine, offering rice bowls, pasta, espresso, and a deli counter. Whatever you want, you get it fresh! Fresh Marketcafé Global Scholars Hall Location Physical Address 1710 E 15th Ave Eugene, Oregon Mailing Address Student’s full name 63### or 64### 1710 East 15th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403-2271 Service Center Located in the lobby on the first floor of Global Scholars Hall. Go here for mail and packages and a key if you’re locked out. Phone: 541-346-9114 Hours of operation Construction in the Neighborhood There will be construction noise and vehicle traffic as repairs are made to Kalapuya Ilihi (south of Global Scholars Hall). Contractors have been asked to be mindful of student schedules and noise levels. Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.