Housing Options | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Residence Halls Room Types Costs Summer Housing Live-On Requirement Housing Options Find Your Home Please note: Kalapuya Ilihi residence hall will be closed for repairs until fall 2025. Hamilton residence hall will be open for the 2024–25 academic year. Although delayed, the university remains highly committed to the designated open green space, phase three of the Hamilton Walton Transformation Project . Academic residential communities housed in Kalapuya Ilihi have been relocated: • Native and Indigenous Studies ARC (and Home Flight Scholars community): Global Scholars Hall • Media and Social Action ARC: New Residence Hall • Art ARC (and the Creative Practice community): Unthank Hall Your Home on Campus As you think about where you want to live on campus, you may want to learn more about the communities , room types , and residence halls at the University of Oregon as well as the costs , which are determined by the type of room and meal plan you select. Living on campus is a great way to make friends and get involved. Not only are you making friends and memories that will last a lifetime, you are creating a foundation for success, connecting with faculty, and transitioning to college life. First-Year Students Once you have been admitted to the UO, you can register for housing. You will want to learn about the different academic residential communities on campus as well as the room types and the different residence halls on campus. This information will help you fill out your housing registration. First-year students at the University of Oregon live in the residence halls . First-time, full-time freshmen from the US have higher GPAs, higher retention rates, higher graduation rates, and faster graduation times when they spend their first academic year living in University Housing at the University of Oregon. Returning, Transfer, and International Students For those who have already lived on campus as a first-year student, if you want to live on campus again , you can sign up on my housing to keep your current room or select from any available room, including the Y asui Hall . You might also consider university apartments . Studying on campus over the summer? No worries, there is summer housing available. Studying abroad? Only pay for the terms you live on campus. All students are welcome and encouraged to live on campus at the University of Oregon. Transfer students find that it is a great way to learn about campus and get involved. International students also have the option to live on campus for their first year at the university. American English Institute (AEI) students should contact aeiservices@uoregon.edu for assistance in registering for housing. Non-freshman students (which would include returning, transfer, exchange, visiting, and American English Institute students) starting at the UO this fall and looking to live on campus for 2024–25 academic year are invited to register for housing at housing.uoregon.edu/myhousing. Registration begins in mid-December (current residents will be notified by email). We anticipate spaces for non-first-time full-time students will be limited. There will be an interest wait list if capacity is reached. The interest wait list will be used as spaces become availabe, with priority based on earliest registration date. Those who have not been offered a residence hall assignment by August 15, 2024, will be asked if they would like to remain on the list Learn more about living here next year . Family Housing and University Apartments Family housing and university apartments offer wonderful environments suited for students with children or students who are married or in a domestic partnership. While graduate students are welcome to live in the residence halls, our Graduate Village prioritizes graduate students. We provide a warm, diverse, academic community where everyone can thrive. Our staff is committed to working with residents to encourage the development of interactive and supportive communities. This is accomplished through creative programs and activities and committed staff who care about your academic and personal success. Learn more about university apartments and submit an application. Register for Housing Check out the step-by-step guide for how to register for housing for first-year students, transfer students, international students, and returning students, as well as information about housing options for graduate students and families. How to Register Room Types You have many room types to choose from at the University of Oregon. About 80 percent of the rooms available on campus are double rooms , but there are also triple rooms , single rooms , and suite-style rooms available. When you register for housing , we’ll ask you to give us your preferences for each room type. Explore Room Types Residence Halls There are ten residence halls at the University of Oregon. Learn about the academic communities in the buildings as well as location, amenities, and academic support at each building. Explore Residence Halls Dining Meal plans are included for all students living on campus. University Housing offers five meal plans so you can find one that fits you best. Meal plans can be used at our 14 dining venues. Meal plans also include $50 of Duck Bucks per term that can be used for goods, services, food, and beverages across campus at locations such as the copy center , libraries , and the EMU student union. Carson Limited meal plan is only accepted at Carson Dining . Explore Dining Plans Questions? We are here to help. If you have questions about living on campus or you have a need related to a special accommodation, we would be happy to work with you. Please call or text University Housing at 541-346-4277 or email housing@uoregon.edu . For disability-related requests please contact the Accessible Education Center at 541-346-1155 or uoaec@uoregon.edu . Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.