Resources | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Resources My Housing My Housing is our online platform that can help you register for housing, update your emergency contact, update meal plans, check on meal points, request a room change, submit a maintenance request, or submit a petition. You can visit your My Housing account for just about anything you need. Learn more about rates, important dates, your housing contract and community standards in the residence halls. My Housing Moving In and Out Learn about the logistics of move-in as well as what to bring and what not to bring when you move into your residence hall. We encourage you to plan ahead for move-out . You may donate unwanted items through our Give Before You Go program. If you want to store items for next year, the university recommends using Campus Storage . Billing University Housing bills room and board charges to your student account at the beginning of each term. If you have questions about the University Housing sections of your bill, please call 541-346-4277 . Please know that University Housing will never ask for sensitive information—like a credit card number—via email. We can directly discuss billing issues only with students. Break and Holiday Planning Whether you are staying on campus or traveling, check out the information about services available in the halls for the following breaks. Veterans Day: November 11, 2024 Thanksgiving Break November 28–December 1, 2024 Winter Break Halls close at noon, December 13, 2024, and reopen on January 4, 2025 Martin Luther King Jr. Day January 20, 2025 Spring Break March 22–30, 2025 Memorial Day May 26, 2025 Computer or Wi-Fi Support Part of the services provided to all students living in the residence halls is the residential networks through our ResNet office . ResNet offers free IT services to residents living in University Housing. Housing Service Centers Your housing service centers are a great place to stop by for your day-to-day hall needs or to check your mail. Whether you need a temporary key or need to pick up a package, we have it all here. Barnhart Service Center (Serves Barnhart and Riley ) 8:00 a.m.–9:00 p.m., Monday–Friday Noon–9:00 p.m., Saturday–Sunday​​​​ 541-346-4287 brhsc@uoregon.edu Global Scholars Hall Service Center (Serves Justice Bean , Global Scholars , Kalapuya Ilihi , Unthank , and Hamilton ) 8:00 a.m.–9:00 p.m., Monday–Friday Noon–9:00 p.m., Saturday–Sunday 541-346-9114 gshsc@uoregon.edu New Residence Hall Service Center (Serves Carson , Earl , LLC , New Residence Hall , Yasui Hall ) 8:00 a.m.–9:00 p.m., Monday–Friday Noon–9:00 p.m., Saturday–Sunday 541-346-5266 hamhsc@uoregon.edu Sending and Receiving Mail Students receive mail and packages at their housing service center. If you are planning to mail something, include the student’s first and last name along with their mailbox number. Please send mail only after the student has checked in to their residence hall. Barnhart, Riley First and last name 68### 1000 Patterson Street Eugene, OR 97401 Justice Bean, Global Scholars, Hamilton, Unthank First and last name 63### or 64### 1710 East 15th Avenue Eugene, OR 97403 Carson, Earl, LLC, New Residence Hall, Yasui Hall First and last name 60###, 61###, or 62### 1410 Agate Street Eugene, OR 97403 Note: Students using this address will receive mail and packages using an app from Smiota, our package locker partner. Download the Smiota app and use your uoregon email address to sign up. In addition to residential mail services at the Housing Service Centers, there is also an Amazon Hub located on the east side of the New Residence Hall at 1410 Agate St, Room 105A, Eugene, OR 97403. Students, faculty, staff, and community members are welcome to utilize the Amazon Hub. Please note: residents ordering from Amazon may still use their residence hall mailing address and the package(s) will go to their service center via regular mail. They must choose the Amazon Hub delivery location in order for it to go to the Hub. Your Housing Contract Not sure about a rule or policy? Ask your resident assistant or check the University Housing contract . Important Dates July 2024: Self-selection of rooms (based on registration dates). Check your student email or login to My Housing . July 31, 2024: Last day to change your housing registration. Last day to cancel housing contract with no penalty. September 26-27, 2024: Fall move-in. Each student will be assigned a move-in date and time by early September. September 30, 2024: Classes begin. December 13, 2024: Halls close for fall term at noon. You may leave your personal items in the room. December 2024: University housing registration available for admitted students for 2025–26. January 4, 2025: Winter opening and move-in for new students. March 22–30, 2025: Spring break. Residents may remain on campus for no extra cost. March 29, 2025: Spring move-in for new students. June 13, 2025: Residence halls close. Students must move out of the residence halls within 24 hours after their last final, or by noon, whichever occurs first. Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.