Staying Safe Online | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Staying Safe Online Here are some ways to keep your computer safe: Use a link scanner to avoid malicious links. Use an adblocker to block malicious ads and domains. Update your operating system and software regularly. Use antivirus and antimalware software. We strive to provide a safe and secure network for all of our residents, students, faculty members, and staff members; but it is up to all of us to keep it that way. Information Services runs automated scans to monitor the behavior of the network, including traffic patterns associated with malware. Computers that are known to be infected with malware are quarantined from the network until ResNet can confirm that the virus is gone. This is to protect you as well as our network. Many modern viruses are written to steal login information for financial institutions and any other personal information that can be found. In order to avoid being quarantined and/or robbed due to malware, we ask that students do their part to help prevent the spread of malicious content. For more information, see our Acceptable Use Policy . Safe Browsing Tools Link Scanner-Safe Searching When conducting a web search on Google or other search engines, it can be tough to tell which sites are legitimate and which sites are malicious. Link scanners are programs, usually web browser add-ons, that can help you better sort out the good from the bad. After installing a link scanner, individual search results will have a green, yellow, or red icon next to them. Green sites are safe. Yellow sites are suspicious (possibly bad). Red sites are known to be unsafe. Web of Trust (WOT) by mywot is considered industry standard for link scanners. The other link scanners such as AVG, McAfee, and Norton fall short in features, updates, and ease of use. Since WOT is community run, it will constantly be updated to reflect the ever changing scape of the internet. While WOT is a very useful tool for people who are not as familiar with the internet, and should be used accordingly, the best way to avoid unsavory links is to analyze the url before clicking on anything you aren’t 100 percent sure of and to never install anything that is force downloaded from any site. Ad-Free Browsing Ads are everywhere on the internet. Not only are they annoying and distracting but they are often dangerous. An otherwise safe, well known website might host an infected ad without knowing it. Simply by visiting that website and clicking on that ad, you could be infected with a virus. While many people still consider Adblock or Adblock plus to be the pinnacle of adblock extensions and software, they have started selling the ability to allow ads through to your computer. uBlock Origin offers the same features as Adblock and Adblock Plus with the added benefit of being Open Source. This means that the coding that goes into the program is transparent and kept in check by the community as whole. uBlock is currently the standard for a secure and adless web browsing experience. Note that Safari does not have support for uBlock Origin. While mainline uBlock is available and still a good option, there is the possibility that it could go the same route that Adblock and Adblock Plus did in their quest to monetize. Keeping your Programs Up to Date Computer and software updates are the key to keeping your computer in top form for the defense against the ever evolving face of malicious attacks. Mainstream operating systems and software are constantly finding exploits in their built-in security and will release patches to try and keep ahead of the next, best exploit. Below are directions on how to access updates for Windows and Mac. Apple Apple Support This should be automatic as of Mac OSX 10.5 From the Apple menu, choose Software Update. Software Update checks for available updates. In the Software Update window, select the items you want to install, then click Install. Usually, you should install all available updates. Enter an administrator account name and password. After installation is complete, restart the computer if required. Apple Software Update does not update non-Apple programs. There is no easy way to do this on Macs yet, so you need to make sure each program is updated individually. Important programs to update are Adobe Reader, Adobe Flash, Java, and all web browsers like Firefox or Google Chrome. Windows Windows updates are automatic by default. If you've disabled this feature, or you know you've been ignoring these updates, go to Start >> All Programs >> Windows Update or Microsoft Update (or typing "update" in the Start menu search bar). ResNet recommends getting Microsoft Update as it updates Office and other Microsoft programs as well as Windows. Antivirus and Current Scans Antivirus programs find threats which are already on your computer. All preventative measures eventually fail, so antivirus software with an active real-time scanner is essential. There are both free and paid subscription options available. The University of Oregon has a site license for MacAfee Endpoint, which enrolled students may use for free. The most recommended antivirus in terms of price (free), features, and obtrusiveness is Microsoft Security Essentials (MSE), also know as Windows Avenger. MSE is standard on all Windows operating systems after Windows 8, but on Windows 7 machines and older it has many features that make it a preference. It is constantly kept up to date and compatible with your operating system, making it one of the most secure real-time protectors on the market. MSE is also extremely minimalist and unobtrusive; it sits in the task bar and never alerts you (unless you want it to) to its presence, while still providing cutting edge protection and scan capabilities. Download MSE at windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security-essentials-download ResNet Connecting Devices - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Contact ResNet Services Phone: 541-346-4223 Hours: Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Submit Service Request Visit Us 1029 Justice Bean Hall Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.