Native American and Indigenous Studies | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Native American and Indigenous Studies What is the Native American and Indigenous Studies Community? This residential academic community is for students who are interested in learning about and developing an understanding of the issues and challenges facing today’s and tomorrow’s Indigenous communities, as well as exploring solutions to those challenges. Students will expand and develop their understanding of Native American, Alaska Native, Pacific Islander, and global Indigenous peoples in an intellectually and culturally supportive space. Learn more about the NAIS community from our academic partners in Native American and Indigenous Studies. Why should I choose to live in this community? The ARC will provide a strong residential academic support system for students’ academic and social needs, as well as connections to community and cultural traditions. The academic curriculum in the ARC will serve as a springboard for those students interested in the interdisciplinary minor in Native Studies. Students will interact with faculty both within and outside of the classroom, as well as interact with upper division students who share their scholarly interests. The ARC offers core courses in Native Studies (one 4-credit course per term, plus a smaller 1-credit seminar), workshops, community service opportunities, mentoring, seminars and academic counseling. There will also be opportunities for collaborations with other ARCs and groups who share similar goals and connections, including the Native American Student Union, and cultural events in the Many Nations Longhouse. The combination of curricular and cocurricular programming is designed to encourage academic and social growth among students and scholars with shared vision with the goal of nurturing both individual and community empowerment. Students also receive term-by-term advising tailored to their academic, cultural, and social needs from our Native American advisor and retention specialist. What are the community expectations? Three seminars restricted to ARC residents (one each term, 4 credits total) Three 4-credit cocurricular lecture classes in Native American and Indigenous studies (one each term) 1 credit of service learning in support of the Native American Student Union’s Mother’s Day Powwow (spring term) Upon successful completion of this coursework, students will have acquired more than half of the 28 credits required for the interdisciplinary minor in Native American and Indigenous Studies. In both academic and cocurricular work, students will develop extensive grounding in Indigenous history and culture as well as nuanced understandings of tribal sovereignty, Indigenous nationhood, settler colonialism, and the diversity and beauty of contemporary Indigenous lives and experiences. In addition to active participation in lectures and seminars, NAIS ARC students are also required to meet regularly with NAIS faculty and advisers, and are encouraged to attend NAIS-related lectures, symposia, and programs; to participate in the Native American Student Union and the Many Nations Longhouse communities; to take advantage of academic and professional development workshops and seminars; to design and facilitate programming and community-building events of their own; and to get involved in other organizations and initiatives on campus. Location Residence Hall: Global Scholars Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact naisarc@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? Though primarily formed to serve and support Indigenous students and their families and communities across their first year at the University of Oregon, the NAIS ARC welcomes all students, regardless of background, who are committed to learning about and serving Indigenous peoples of Oregon, the US, and the world. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.