Thrive: Healthy Living | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Thrive: Healthy Living This community is full for fall 2024. Nurturing a Passion for Healthy Living The Thrive Academic Residential Community is for students passionate about building a healthy campus through a fun approach to personal well-being, peer education, and community influence. Through the science of behavior change and happiness and health promotion theories, you’ll explore ways to make the best choices for yourself—and build sustainable healthy communities. Why Live in the Thrive ARC? This community, led by the Physical Education and Recreation Department, strives to help students become aware of their strengths and challenges in multiple dimensions of wellness: physical, mental, social, environmental, and intellectual well-being as well as leadership fortitude. Students will live within a community that supports healthy lifestyles while creating lasting friendships and experiencing meaningful mentorship. This ARC will support the research in guiding students to improve their lives in key areas of well-being that are within their control. The philosophy is that students will experience ways to prioritize their health and well-being, move toward and maintain healthy choices, and influence their peers in a purposeful and supportive cohort. What are the community expectations? Biology class: BI 170 Neuroscience of Happiness (fall term) Yearlong ARC seminar (UGST 112): 4 credits total Mindfulness, meditation, and movement sessions Community meals—planning, shopping, preparation, and enjoyment Term intramurals membership and/or Group X membership Location Residence Hall: Earl Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact ThriveARC@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All first-year students who are interested in wellness and wanting to enroll in healthy community pathway courses are welcome. We want students who are looking to foster and maintain healthy habits that support personal and community well-being. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.