Dining at the New Residence Hall | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Dining at the New Residence Hall PNW Public Market The PNW Public Market at Unthank Hall will be a wonderful mix of delicious, local, and chef-driven food venues on the ground floor. The market will provide campus with nine distinct dining venues with a mix of dine-in and take-out food options. Providing everything from breakfast, lunch, and dinner, to late night snacks and groceries, the PNW Public Market will be the hub of the neighborhood to dine, work, study, or just hang out. The market will feature seating for more than 500 guests, including two outdoor dining patios, counter service, restaurant, and market-style service. Variety and Deliciousness Agate Street Market: Traditional Northwest natural food store with local fresh and packaged food, including sandwiches, salads, bulk food, trail mix, fresh produce. Healthy, sustainable mini-grocery store with basics and not-so-basics featuring best of the northwest. Bullseye Taco: Street tacos and burritos on scratch-made tortillas grilled on site. Served with our mouthwatering house salsa. PNW Café: NW coffee, espresso, and tea. Mini O doughnuts made on site. Drake’s Deli: Market-style deli featuring rotisserie chicken, barbecued brisket and chicken, salads, mac and cheese, hoagie sandwiches, and our soon-to-be-famous Drake’s hot and spicy chicken sandwich. Duck’s House: Full-service restaurant centered around the tradition of UO athletics. Hearth and Soul: Hearth-baked pizza and salads. Steam: Our take on ramen and bao—with NW-inspired flavors. Tamarind: Hearth-baked naan bread served with classics such as tikka masala chicken, butter chicken, dal, and curry. Watershed: Featuring healthful and rejuvenating natural food. Plentiful vegetarian, vegan, and gluten- and allergen-free options. Fresh-squeezed juices, green and grain bowls built to order. Duck’s House Restaurant Connect with the outdoors and the active Northwest lifestyle at the Duck’s House, a full-service restaurant that celebrates the traditions, spirit, and energy of University of Oregon sports—quirky, fun, inclusive, fresh, and just plain delicious. The menu will include burgers, chicken, entrée salads including salmon and chicken caesar salad, vegetarian and vegan options, and much more, along with soda, kombucha, beer, wine, and hard ciders. Welcome, everyone, to the Duck’s House! Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.