Faculty in Residence | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in Residence The Faculty in Residence program at the University of Oregon means that faculty members and their families live in the residence halls. Having connections and meaningful conversations with faculty members is one of the keys to student engagement and success. The Faculty in Residence program is one more way to bring the college experience home to you at the UO. There are four faculty members in residence at the UO. There are also faculty fellows that support each residence hall on campus. ​​​​​ Meet Ari Purnama Assistant Professor, Cinema Studies I am passionate about the arts, particularly cinema, and the way they channel our humanity through storytelling. That is why I commit my professional life to the study, teaching, and practice of films from different parts of the world and cultures. As a faculty member in residence in the New Residence Hall, I see myself not as a “sage on the stage” but as a supportive coach and enthusiastic sounding board, juggling roles as a mentor, advisor, supporter, fellow Mario Kart player, performing arts enthusiast, and dependable resource for your academic queries and more. I cherish spontaneity, so you’re always welcome to swing by my office on the ground floor of the New Residence Hall, whether you’re seeking academic advice or simply want to discuss your favorite movie soundtracks! If you prefer to set an appointment, you can drop me a line at purnama@uoregon.edu . Meet Jina Kim Assistant Professor, East Asian Languages and Literatures I see my role as a mentor who will act as a facilitator, guide post, and a cheerleader—someone who can assist you in your path toward success at the UO. I am looking forward to working with you to build our community in G lobal Scholars Hall . I hope we can, together, explore this curious world we live in; discover various interconnectedness we have; and see our belonging in solving global, national, local (however small) problems we face in a collaborative way. My apartment and office are on the first floor near the Learning Commons. My East Asian Languages and Literatures office is located in Friendly Hall 403. Please stop by! Or you can email me at jinak@uoregon.edu to set up a time to talk. Meet Robin Hopkins Career Instructor, Human Physiology I love everything related to the structure and function of the human body and moved to Eugene from Canada to teach in the Department of Human Physiology. The best part of my job is engaging with students along their academic journeys and I am very excited to extend that beyond the classroom and into the community of Justice Bean Hall as a faculty member in residence. Come stop by my office off the east kitchen in Justice Bean or join me for puppy playtime with my charcoal lab Grizzly. You can also email me at rhopkins@uoregon.edu . I’m looking forward to hearing your story and building the Justice Bean community together! Meet Jennifer O’Neal Assistant Professor, Indigenous, Race, and Ethnic Studies My interests are varied and I’ll be hosting a number of exciting programs throughout the year. I hope to see you at these gatherings and look forward to getting to know you. Participating in them is one of the best ways to meet people and get involved in our community. I’m here to help guide you along your academic and personal journey at the UO. My office is on the second floor of Unthank Hall; feel free to stop by and say hello. You can also email me at joneal@uoregon.edu . Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.