Pre-Arrival | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Pre-Arrival Pre-Arrival Information Packing and Shipping We recommend packing light. We have created a What to Bring Checklist to help you shop and pack. Barnhart Hall, Carson Hall, Global Scholars Hall (GSH), Living Learning Center (LLC), Yasui Hall (formerly New Apartment-Style Residence Hall), New Residence Hall, Riley Hall, and Unthank Hall have elevators (which may be busy during move-in). It may also be helpful to bring a hand truck or dolly. Each student may bring guests/helpers along during move-in. If you have a family pet, please leave your furry friends at home as they are not permitted in the halls. Want to ship some of your belongings? Please make sure they arrive after you do. We are unable to hold items for people who are not current residents and will have to return to sender unless you have checked in. Remember to leave behind alcohol, illegal drugs, drug and alcohol paraphernalia, weapons, pets (except fish, 10 gallons or less), hot plates, microwaves, incense and candles (including wickless), extension cords, halogen lamps, valuables, and large amounts of cash. As a federally funded institution, the UO abides by federal law, which classifies marijuana as an illegal substance. Marijuana may not be possessed on any UO-owned or -controlled property, including the residence halls. Directions and Traveling You need to print out your unloading permit to be able to drive on to campus. This gives you access to your unloading zone on campus at your move-in time. The roads on campus will be closed to everyone except those with an Unpack the Quack unloading permit. Parking for large vehicles and trailers or motorhomes is not permitted in the unloading zones. Motorhome parking is not provided for students and families at move-in, and public street parking that does not have a two-hour parking limit is far from campus. Each residence hall has an unloading zone. This map and the route will be available to you via My Housing in mid-September. After your vehicle is unloaded, you or your driver will be directed to park at Autzen Stadium. Shuttle vehicles are available to bring people back to campus and will be available to take you back to your vehicle until 5:30 p.m. Picking up Your UO ID Card If you do not get your UO ID Card at check-in, you will need to get it before 5:00 p.m. at the ID Card Office. The ID Card Office is located at the Erb Memorial Union (EMU) and is open Monday to Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Your UO ID card grants you access to your hall, use meal points at the 14 housing dining venues , go to the Student Recreation Center and University Health S ervices , check out library books, and more. Moving In Information Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Connect with Us Phone: 541-346-4277 Hours: Monday–Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Email: housing@uoregon.edu Visit Us Justice Bean Hall Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.