Environmental Leaders | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Environmental Leaders This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Environmental Leaders Community? When you join the Environmental Leaders community, you get to live and learn with peers who share your enthusiasm for the environment and social justice. You will live together in the same hall while exploring sustainability through course work, campus activities, and ARC opportunities such as the Green Beans Leadership Team, a reading group, gardening in our plot in the Grove Garden, and more. The program begins with an orientation camping trip where you will get to know your peers and engage with specific sustainability topics such as food and farming, environmental justice, or biking and sustainable transportation. During this trip you will explore Eugene’s quirky corners and the natural world beyond campus with student leaders and other mentors. Our planet is precious and our environmental problems are complex. Solving them requires the passion and talents of planners and designers, engineers and scientists, legal experts and civic engagers, energy experts and farmers, inventors and entrepreneurs, artists and thinkers, and those willing to advocate for social justice, and the needs of nonhuman species. How will you make a difference? Why should I choose to live in this community? If you’re interested in tackling complex environmental problems, Environmental Leaders is for you. Enthusiasm and curiosity are the only requirements. This community welcomes students from any academic track, regardless of existing environmental knowledge. No matter what you hope to do for the environment, Environmental Leaders is a great place to begin the journey. Besides the orientation trip, you’re expected to complete one environmental studies course in fall quarter and take the Environmental Leaders ARC seminar during fall and winter term. Sustainability is a foundational value at the UO and there are numerous activities available including hikes, special lectures, service projects, and weekend camping trips. You can participate in as many or as few of these as you like. What courses will we take? ENVS 203: Environmental Studies (4 credits, fall quarter) UGST 112: Topics in the Environmental Leaders ARC (4 credits—2 in fall, 2 in winter. If successfully passed both quarters, qualifies as a social science Area of Inquiry credit.) These courses satisfy specific environmental studies minor or major requirements and/or satisfy humanities and social science general education group requirements. Location Residence Hall: Justice Bean Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact envleaders@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All first-year students are eligible. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.