Home Flight Scholars | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Home Flight Scholars What is the Home Flight Scholars Program (HSFP) Residential Community? The HFSP Residential Community is for Native American students that would like to build their network and community with students who have similar educational and social backgrounds. Residents in this community can choose to share a room with a student who is in the NAIS ARC or another Home Flight scholar. Students also receive advising tailored to their academic, cultural, and social needs from our Native American advisor and retention specialist. HFSP will live on the same floor as the NAIS ARC in Global Scholars Hall, which is adjacent to the Many Nations Longhouse. At the longhouse daily study sessions, meals, food pantry, and community activities are available. The Native American Student Union, Indigenous Women’s Wellness Group, Native American Law Student Association, and other like-minded social communities meet in the longhouse. What are the community expectations? Attend one community program per term. There is no coursework required for the Home Flight community. Home Flight community students are also required to meet regularly with the Native/Indigenous retention specialist and/or the Many Nations Longhouse steward. Location Residence Hall: Global Scholars Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence halls if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? The Home Flight Scholars Residential Community is limited to Home Flight Scholars only. For more information about the Home Flight Scholars Program, visit their web page . Please note, Home Flight Scholars are not required to live in the residential community. They may choose to apply to other communities or live elsewhere on campus. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.