About Us | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us About Us About University Housing Living on campus adds value to the UO student experience. Students who live on campus are more likely to graduate, have higher grades, and graduate at a faster rate. University Housing includes Apartments and Family Housing, Business Operations, University Catering and Conference Services, University Dining, Facilities and Maintenance, and Residence Life. With more than 1,200 professional and student employees, University Housing is one of the largest employers on campus. Housing Team Our Values Partnering and Advertising Our Big Goal The big goal of University Housing is provide a robust living experience through accessible and affordable state-of-the-art housing, dining, social, and academic programs for the entire student body to develop community leaders, innovators and change-makers who will enrich the future. Our Core Purpose: To support student success by cultivating inclusive communities. Strategic Plan Diversity Initiatives Working to Develop an Inclusive, Multicultural Organization University Housing strives to be a multicultural organization that actively includes and engages everyone. We are committed to embracing diversity, multiculturalism, and inclusion in our daily work practices and activities—with our ongoing goal to create safe, welcoming, and equitable working and learning environments. University Housing supports and contributes to the University of Oregon IDEAL Framework: A Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. The IDEAL Framework Join Our Team Professional staff jobs are posted on the UO Human Resources website. Student Opportunities University Housing is one of the largest employers on the University of Oregon campus. University Housing student jobs include: Dining and catering Summer conference ambassadors (opens early winter term) Resident assistants (RA) (opens in December) Residential operations (customer service jobs for housing service centers, housing office front desk, family housing desk, HERO (typically opens late winter term) Facilities summer work crew—paint and maintenance (opens spring term) Facilities custodial jobs (opens spring term) To see all student jobs, search for “University Housing” on the Handshake job site . Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.