Checking In | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Checking In Early Arrivals For those arriving before September 26, check-in will take place at the housing service center for your residence hall. Your service center information is on the My Assignment tab in My Housing. For early arrivals, there are no designated unloading zones and there are university parking areas and city parking areas throughout campus. At your housing service center, you will be greeted by University Housing staff to provide you with your key or fob to your residence hall room. You will need your UO ID or government–issued ID. To receive one night of your early arrival fee waived, sign up to volunteer for Unpack the Quack! For Thursday, September 26 and Friday, September 27 Your Unloading Zone Each residence hall has an unloading zone. This map and the route will be available to you via My Housing in the mid-September. Unloading Your Vehicle Unpack the Quack volunteers and support staff will assist a member of your family to unload your vehicle (only one allowed) in your unloading zone and take your belongings to a corral, if needed, where they are held until you receive your key. You will not be able to park your vehicle, so the driver must stay in your vehicle. Students who arrive without any one else will have volunteers unload their vehicle and bring belongings to the corral. Parking After your vehicle is unloaded, you or your driver will be directed to long-term parking. Shuttle vehicles are available to bring you back to campus and will be available to take you back to your vehicle. Check In You will be greeted by University Housing staff to provide you with your key or fob to your residence hall room. Once you check-in, you can move-in to your hall. Late Move-In If you will be arriving after move-in, you are considered a late arrival. You will need to complete and submit a Change in Arrival form on My Housing to prevent your assigned space from being canceled. If your plans change, please notify University Housing as soon as possible. Moving In Information Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Connect with Us Phone: 541-346-4277 Hours: Monday–Friday, 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Email: housing@uoregon.edu Visit Us Justice Bean Hall Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.