Business | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Business This community is full for fall 2024. What is the Business Academic Residential Community? This is a community for aspiring business leaders that is dedicated to changing the face of business—figuratively and literally. The Business Academic Residential Community is for business students not interested in doing business as usual. This is a community for those who want to explore what business can and should be. This community is focused on providing the skills needed for the business world of the future. The developmental goals and values of the business ARC are leadership, empowerment, academic achievement, and diversity and inclusion (LEAD). You’ll see the LEAD pillars represented in all aspects of Business ARC programming, including the BA 199 seminar class and other in-person events. Why should I choose to live in this community? You should be part of the Business Academic Residential Community if you: Want to pursue a business or accounting degree Are considering one of the four business minors: business administration, entrepreneurship, sports business, sustainable business Enjoy challenging yourself and others Operate well in a diverse arena Want to be exposed to a full range of career and academic advising services to jump start your academic and professional journey. This is an opportunity for students to live in the same hall as others who are serious about a challenging academic program and will work on creating a community dedicated to creating a network of support. What courses will I take? The goal of the Business Academic Residential Community is to create an academic atmosphere while providing opportunities for students to grow in and out of the classroom. The fall BA 199 seminar class is dedicated to prepare students to be the best versions of themselves, both personally and professionally. Students participating in the business ARC should be prepared to engage in at least one specific ARC course each term. Students can choose courses that explore business areas, meet lower division or minor requirements, or give you elective credit. Fall You will be automatically registered for BA 101: Introduction to Business, 4 credits. Required for admission to the Lundquist College of Business. Counts as a social science course for the UO general education requirements. If you already have BA 101 on your transcript, chat with an advisor during new student orientation. BA 199: Professional Development, 1 credit. Orientation to the Lundquist College of Business. Focuses on developing relationships that contribute to academic and professional growth and next steps for academic goals. Winter Choose one of the following: BA 252: Global Perspectives in Business , 4 credits. A business elective that counts towards both the certificate in global business and as the global context course required for the major. MGMT 225: Introduction to Entrepreneurship , 4 credits. A business elective that introduces students to the basics of the entrepreneurship program. MGMT 250: Introduction to Sustainable Business , 4 credits. A business elective that introduces students to the basics of the sustainable business minor. SBUS 250: Introduction to Sports Business , 4 credits. A business elective that introduces students to the basics of the sports business minor. Spring You will be automatically registered for BA 240: Managing Business Information, 4 credits. Required for admission to the Lundquist College of Business. Books for Biz Scholarship A $200 book scholarship is available for 30 Business Academic Residential Community students each term for their first year as residential community participants. Apply by August 31 . Location Residence Hall: Justice Bean Hall . Students living in this community must select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact LCB-undergrad@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? All first-year students are eligible. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.