Meal Plans | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Meal Plans Meal Plans That Fit Your Needs There are a number of residential meal plan options as well as a plan for off-campus students and employees. All residence hall students need to choose a residential meal plan (excluding Yasui Hall, see below). Residential Meal Plans University Housing and Dining Services offers five residential dining plans for students living in the residence halls. Students can choose one of five options, each plan includes $50 in Duck Bucks per term. These plans are included in your room and board rates and are not optional. You choose a residential meal plan when you complete your University Housing residence hall registration . All plans except the Carson based plan can be changed at any time. The Carson based plan can be changed between terms or during the first week of each term. Options All residential meal plans except for the Carson based plan operate on a flexible point system loaded weekly on your UO ID and can be used at any of the 14 dining venues. Points renew each Sunday morning. Deluxe: 95 points per week, plus $50 Duck Bucks per term. For students who seldom skip a meal and occasionally treat a friend. Standard: 80 points per week, plus $50 Duck Bucks per term. This plan is the most popular, providing enough for meals and snacks throughout the week. Select: 65 points per week, plus $50 Duck Bucks per term. For students who might skip breakfast but not lunch or dinner. Mini: 50 points per week, plus $50 Duck Bucks per term. For students who eat on the go and are often off campus on the weekends. Spend the meal points buying any combination of items you like. An average day might look like this: Breakfast at DUX Bistro—coffee and a bagel with cream cheese—2 points Lunch at Bullseye Taco—pollo asado burrito—4 points Dinner at Fresh! Marketcafé—shrimp scampi with a fountain drink—5 points Add a piece of fruit or a pint of milk or freshly baked cookies—1 point Carson–based: Entry to Carson Dining (dine-in only) any time it is open, plus five meal points per week. This is the most economical plan for students. This plan includes $50 Duck Bucks per term. Except for the Duck Bucks and the five meal points per week, this plan is only valid at Carson Dining . The Carson–based plan can only be changed in between terms or during the first week of each term. Please note that points may be prorated around holiday weeks when dining is not open for typical hours. For more information, see our Holidays and Breaks page . Rollover Meal Points Each residential meal plan comes with a rollover account. If you have leftover points at the end of the week, they will roll over to your account for use in subsequent weeks. Rollover points can be used just like regular points any time in the term. We encourage you to select a plan that best fits your needs without having too many leftover points. A maximum of 50 points can accrue in your rollover account. Rollover is reset to zero at the start of a new term. Rollover points can only be used when students have used up their allotted points for the week. Students can check their point balance on My Housing or at any of housing’s dining venues. Yasui Hall Students who reserve single or quad rooms in the Yasui Hall will have full kitchens in their units. These students may purchase meals through the Ducks Dine On program but will not be able to use the meal plan options above. Please note that you will need to select a residential meal plan as you register, but if you end up choosing a room in Yasui Hall, your meal plan selection will be removed. Duck Bucks Each plan includes $50 Duck Bucks per term that can be used for goods, services, food, and beverages across campus at locations such as the copy center, library, and EMU. Your Duck Bucks balance is available as long as you are an enrolled student. Duck Bucks refunds are subject to the terms and conditions of Duck Bucks. Changes to the Duck Bucks portion of plans will go into effect at the start of each term. Duck Bucks full terms and conditions . Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.