Umoja Black Scholars | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Umoja Black Scholars What is the Umoja Black Scholars community? Umoja (“unity” in Swahili) is a community that aims to cultivate a sense of belonging for incoming Black students at the University of Oregon. This community is designed to meet the social and academic needs of Black students through fostering an understanding of and respect for Black cultures, identities, and histories. This is an inclusive environment that embraces the nuanced and multifaceted lived experiences of being Black in America. Students have the opportunity to gain an in-depth awareness of the historic and contemporary experiences of Black people through course work, guest lecturers, programs, and community engagement. Why should I choose to live in this community? The Umoja community provides resources and support for students’ social and academic needs. Students will become familiar with the evolution of Black history and how that history affects their contemporary experiences and the development of intersecting identities both locally, within Eugene, and globally. Connections between scholarship and experience are further developed through cocurricular programming, which includes seminars, events, guest speakers, and professional development opportunities. This combination of curricular and cocurricular programming is designed to encourage personal exploration and intellectual growth among Umoja scholars, with a goal of nurturing both individual and community empowerment for Black students and communities. The goal is to empower our students with the tools that they need to thrive at a predominantly white institution. Umoja creates a space in which Black students can come together, grow in their own identities, and learn about the diversity of the diaspora. It is also meant to create belonging that will allow for Black wellness, community-building, and academic success. All students in Umoja receive support in the above areas of learning, as well as utilizing community resources, navigating campus, decision-making, and leadership development. What are the community expectations? UGST 112: ARC seminar is required for the entire academic year. Get acquainted and connected with each other as scholars as well as the greater UO Black community. Explore, discuss, and reflect how your own identities and social locations as Black individuals contribute to or challenge your academic work and experiences while attending a historically and predominantly white institution. Location Residence Hall: The residential component of Umoja is in Justice Bean Hall . Students living in this community will select roommates who are also in the community. Please note that communities can be moved to different residence hall buildings if the size or need of the community changes. For more information, contact arcs@uoregon.edu . Who is eligible and how do I apply? The Umoja Black Scholars ARC is for University of Oregon students who identify as Black. Umoja Scholars must be willing to enroll in the ARC courses, as well as participate in the university’s Undergraduate Research Symposium held during spring term. Students can be of any undergraduate class. Register for University Housing and select the community you prefer in the "Community Preference" section. Answer the community questions on your housing registration. Completed community applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis until May 1. Wait lists for communities will close May 15. Explore other Community Options Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.