Viruses | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Secondary Menu Moving In Information Holidays and Breaks Transportation ResNet Moving Out Laundry Parents and Families Viruses To keep up with the ever changing battery of viruses that users can get on their computer, ResNet employs various virus scans and updating software that are to be used in conjunction with one another to ensure that a virus is fully removed from the system. DMCA, MALWARE Quarantine If a device has been infected by malware and uses the university network, a network quarantine will be placed on that device until such a time as it can be determined that the malware has been removed. When a virus file is quarantined, it is removed from the original location and placed in a protected container to prevent it from harming your computer. The antivirus software then determines whether the quarantined item is actually harmful. If the item is deemed harmful, it can be removed completely from the hard drive. On the other hand, if the item is found to be non-harmful and was quarantined due to a false-negative flag, the item can be restored to your computer without harming any files. The University of Oregon prides itself on the ability to keep a safe, secure, and restriction-free network for all students, staff members, and guests to enjoy. However, the reality is that malware is a pervasive and constantly evolving force, meaning that the university must take steps to protect the sensitive data of all users.  There are a few ways that malware can be removed from a device but in all cases the quarantined device must be checked by a member of the ResNet team to verify that at least one of the steps has been taken. Free ResNet Scans The easiest way to get your infected device back onto the network is to take it to the ResNet office for scans. This a free service provided to all students living in the residence halls. ResNet scans your device with seven different malware scanners in order to make sure that all infected material has been removed. Unfortunately, these scans must be performed in our office by our staff in order to ensure university security standards are kept when verifying that malware has been removed. Please note that in certain instances (info-stealer malware) the malware may be too severe to perform this step in which case we highly recommend proceeding to the foolproof method of reformatting. Reformat Reformatting your device (most likely only in the case of a computer) wipes all files on that computer, essentially setting it back to factory default. This method ensures that any malware hidden in the device is destroyed along with the system files on the disk. Your personal files such as videos, documents, and pictures can be backed up to prevent loss. However, any programs such as web browsers, iTunes, and Microsoft Word will be deleted along with the rest of the information on the hard drive. This method is highly recommended in certain cases of severe types of malware such as info-stealing malware that is generally known to be able to hide deep within the system and evade most scanning detection. Unlike scanning, this method can be done by users on their own time, only requiring that a staff member at ResNet check the device to verify that the reformat was done. ResNet also provides this service free of charge. If you have any questions or concerns about this procedure, don’t hesitate to contact our office . Staying Safe Online Connecting Devices - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Contact ResNet Services Phone: 541-346-4223 Hours: Monday–Friday, 9:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Submit Service Request Visit Us 1029 Justice Bean Hall Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.