Yasui Hall | University Housing Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu University Housing Menu Register Housing Options Housing Options Overview Residence Halls Residence Halls Overview Barnhart Hall Earl Hall Carson Hall Global Scholars Hall Justice Bean Hall Kalapuya Ilihi Living Learning Center Riley Hall Unthank Hall Hamilton Hall Room Types Costs Summer Housing Summer Housing Overview Summer Storage Live-On Requirement Communities Dining Dining Overview Meal Plans Nutrition and Dietary Needs Summer Dining Academic Support Academic Support Overview Faculty in Residence Faculty in the Halls Faculty in the Halls Overview Alisa Freedman Avinash Singh Bala Cory Olsen David McCormick Derek Brandow Kemi Balogun Lana Lopesi Lanch McCormick Larry Ulibarri Matthias Vogel Scott Fisher Wonkak Kim Resources Resources Overview Moving In Information Moving In Information Overview Pre-Arrival What to Bring and What Not to Bring Checking In Week of Welcome Payment Information Holidays and Breaks Holidays and Breaks Overview Veterans Day Thanksgiving Break Winter Break Martin Luther King Jr. Day Spring Break Memorial Day Transportation ResNet ResNet Overview Connecting Devices ResNet Connecting Devices Menu Connecting Devices Overview - Game Consoles - Smart TVs Internet Setup ResNet Store Staying Safe Online ResNet Staying Safe Online Menu Staying Safe Online Overview - File Sharing - Viruses Printers Moving Out Moving Out Overview Give Before You Go Laundry Parents and Families About Us About Us Overview Staff Directory Our Values Sustainability Partnering and Advertising Student Leadership Contact Us Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give University Housing Main navigation Register Housing Options Communities Dining Academic Support Resources About Us Yasui Hall Yasui Hall With a variety of apartment living options designed to create an experience for returning Ducks that is distinct from their first year, Yasui Hall brings innovative student housing principles to the center of the UO’s campus. Whether you prefer to live alone or with friends, the micro studio and quad unit layouts offer well-appointed, self-contained living options for everyone. Each apartment-style unit configuration includes a private bathroom and full kitchen. Each room features locally controlled heaters and operable windows. Welcome Home … Again Yasui Hall is designed for students returning to campus after their first year. With studio and four-bedroom units, this building is full of amenities for students who appreciate the independence of apartment living but also want the support, resources, and convenience that comes with living in the middle of campus. This hall will also have programming events aimed at non-first-year students. There are quiet study spaces and active common areas on each floor. Summer Add On Students who will be living in the Yasui Hall in the fall are welcome to rent a room during the preceding summer. Rates Micro Studio: $1,200 per month Room in a four-bedroom suite: $900 per month ​​​ Amenities All utilities included Covered and secure bike shelter Music practice rooms Laundry facilities on each floor Private and group study rooms Community lounges Elevators Landscaped courtyards Room Types Micro studios with private bathroom and kitchen Four-bedroom units with two bathrooms, kitchen, and living room Beds: double 54" × 75" Studio: 194 sq ft Quad units: each bedroom 91 sq ft, total 863 sq ft Please note that square footage numbers are approximate. Furnishing for the quad units include a sofa, dining table, and four chairs. Yasui Hall Location Physical Address 1595 East 15th Ave. Eugene, OR 97403 Mailing Address Student’s full name 6#### 1410 Agate Street Eugene, OR 97403 Service Center Located in the lobby on the first floor of the New Residence Hall . Go here if you’re locked out or need assistance. Phone: 541-346-5266 Hours of operation Residence Halls Residence Halls Costs Communities Register Dining and Catering Dining Meal Plans University University Catering Ducks Dine On Connect With Us Contact Monday–Friday 8:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. Apartments Apartments Neighborhoods Pay My Rent Apply University Housing University Housing Staff Directory Conference and Event Support Student Jobs My Housing University Housing 1416 Columbia Street Eugene , OR 97403 Office: Bean P: 541-346-4277 housing@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.