Classified Performance Evaluation Instructions | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Classified Performance Evaluation Instructions INTRODUCTION: It is university policy that all employees receive annual performance appraisals. Article 49 of the SEIU collective bargaining agreement (PDF) and Article 36 of the Teamster agreement (PDF) outline this process for classified employees. The SEIU contract provides for two appraisal forms, one for information technology positions and one for all other classifications. If you have questions about the classified performance appraisal process, please contact Employee and Labor Relations at 541-346-2966. Remember that the performance appraisal process is part of a longer relationship with an employee that includes on-going communication and coaching. There should be no surprises in the performance appraisal. 1. BEGIN THE APPRAISAL PROCESS Schedule an appointment to discuss the performance appraisal with the employee, ensuring adequate time and appropriate space for a meaningful and confidential exchange. You may want to begin the process by sending the " Performance Appraisal Discussion Questionnaire " to the employee to help him or her prepare for the appraisal discussion. This questionnaire serves as a vehicle for discussion and creates a mechanism for the employee to contribute to the appraisal. Completion of the questionnaire is optional for the employee. This form is not a part of the official performance appraisal and is not submitted to Human Resources. In addition, include a copy of the employee's position description and ask him or her to make revisions as appropriate. The position description summarizes the duties of the position and the skills, knowledge and abilities required of the employee for satisfactory performance. It also serves as the basis of the performance appraisal. Review the employee's position description yourself and make notes of your suggested changes. To prepare for the appraisal, review supervisory files and other documents that indicate achievements and other performance factors during the year. Examples include thank-you letters and commendations or complaints from customers or colleagues. Some classified positions support a number of faculty members or administrators. In this case, it may be appropriate to solicit assessments from these individuals to include in your appraisal of the employee. Once you have gathered information and supporting documents, complete the appraisal form as described in #2 below with your initial evaluative comments. It is usually a good idea to ask your supervisor to review your appraisal plan prior to discussion with the employee. 2. COMPLETE THE PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL FORM Duties Section: Use the position description to complete the duties section of the " Classified Employee Performance Appraisal " form. List each duty, its percentage of the job, and whether it is an essential function. Carefully consider the performance descriptions for each duty and mark the box that best describes the performance of the employee for that duty. As appropriate, expand on your assessment with a narrative comment that provides examples or highlights strengths and weaknesses. Narrative comments are required when a rating of "Unsatisfactory Performance" is given. Furnish comments that clarify for the employee what performance the employee must do to improve from a rating of "competent" to "highly competent"). Copy the back side of page if you are evaluating more than four job duties. Behavioral Factors Section: Carefully consider the descriptions for each behavioral factor listed and mark the box that best reflects the work behavior of the employee. While recommended for all behavioral factors, narrative comments are required when you indicate on the form that the work behavior is unacceptable. Using narrative comments, clarify for the employee what improvements are required to advance through the criteria (i.e., provide specific behavior changes the employee must make to receive a higher rating on work behavior). Employee Development Section : List the training, workshops, and courses taken during the covered period and indicate how training benefited performance. Human Resources training records may be attached. Specify future training needs (if any) and the plan for how the training will be accomplished. Keep in mind that employee development may take various forms to meet professional, technical or job-specific goals regarding duties or behavioral factors. 3. MEET WITH THE EMPLOYEE Begin the performance appraisal discussion with a review of the position description. Discuss possible revisions to the description with the employee and draft the final version. If your employee has completed the "Performance Appraisal Discussion Questionnaire," review his or her responses to the questions. Listen carefully to the employee's contributions, ask questions, and respond thoughtfully. Discuss in depth the appraisal form you completed, spending time on each duty or behavioral factor. Give examples to illustrate your ratings. Offer the employee the chance to provide input and ask questions. It is essential that the employee leave the meeting with a clear understanding of how he or she is meeting performance expectations and how to improve. 4. FINALIZE THE APPRAISAL After the performance appraisal meeting, incorporate any revisions to the performance appraisal form that came about as a result of your discussion and prepare a final copy of an updated position description. Schedule another meeting with the employee so that both of you can sign the appraisal and position description. At this time, the employee completes the "Employee Response" section and indicates whether you as supervisor discussed the appraisal with him or her. The employee may attach a written response to the appraisal. He or she may also send a response to Human Resources within 60 days which will be placed with the appraisal in their personnel file. The performance appraisal form has a space for "Reviewer" signature. Generally, this is the supervisor's supervisor or the department head. Give copies of the performance appraisal and position description to the employee and keep a set for your supervisory files. Completed and signed appraisals should be sent to Human Resources through the HR document submission process . (If there are no changes to the position description you do not need to send this document to Human Resources.) The Human Resources Director's signature is added as "Appointing Authority". The performance appraisal is placed in the employee's personnel file and the position description is filed by position number. Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.