MyTrack: FAQs-Applicants | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home MyTrack: FAQs-Applicants Table of Contents How do I apply for a position? Where can I get assistance with viewing jobs or completing my online application? Can I submit a paper application or email my application materials? Who can I talk to if I need more information on the job I want to apply to? Who do I address the cover letter to? If there is no “apply now” button, how do I apply? The system won’t accept my email and/or password. What should I do? I clicked “Forgotten your password?” and it didn’t send me an email, what should I do? I want to change my cover letter or other submitted application materials; how do I do that? I started an application, but didn’t submit it. How do I go back to finish my application? If I started an application but didn’t submit it, can I still submit it after the posting deadline has passed? How do I log back in to my profile? How do I withdraw an application? What time do jobs officially close? How can I check the status of my application? How long does it take departments to review applications? When will I know if I moved on in the search process? What veteran form is needed to receive preference? I’ve already submitted my DD-214 to document my eligibility for veterans’ preference for a previous application. Why am I being asked to submit it again? How do I receive notification about new job opportunities? How do I apply for a position? To apply for most positions, click the “Apply Now” button on the top right corner of the job posting. If you have never applied in our system, you will be prompted to create an applicant profile in the applicant portal. If you have previously applied, you can return to your applicant profile by clicking “Sign In” on the right hand side of the Current Opportunities webpage and entering the email address and password you used to set up your account. Once your profile is set up, you will use the same email address and password to log in to the applicant portal and apply for positions, manage applications, and view the status of your applications. Some recruitments may direct applicants to other online application systems or external search firms. In these cases, the “Special Instructions to Applicants” will describe the correct method for applying to these jobs. Where can I get assistance with viewing jobs or completing my online application? If you are unable to find an answer to your question on this page, you are welcome to contact uocareers@uoregon.edu with questions about completing your application. In addition, the Eugene Public Library provides computer and internet access, which can be used to view open positions and submit applications. The Library is located in Downtown Eugene at 100 W 10 th Avenue and can be reached at 541-682-5450. Can I submit a paper application or email my application materials? No. Applications are submitted online; the University of Oregon no longer accepts paper or emailed applications or resumes. The University is committed to providing reasonable accommodations to applicants and employees who have disabilities and for sincerely held religious beliefs. To request an accommodation in connection with the application process, please contact us at uocareers@uoregon.edu or 541-346-5112. Who can I talk to if I need more information on the job I want to apply to? Please email uocareers@uoregon.edu and your request will be forwarded to the appropriate individual. Who do I address the cover letter to? You may address the cover letter to the either the “Search Committee” or the “Hiring Manager.”  Specific names are not required. If there is no “apply now” button, how do I apply? Specific instructions on how to apply can be found in the job advertisement under “Special Instructions to Applicants." The system won’t accept my email and/or password. What should I do? You can reset your password by clicking on the “Forgotten your password?” link after clicking the  Sign In button from the Current Opportunities webpage . If you cannot remember the email address you used to create your profile, please email uocareers@uoregon.edu for assistance. Please note that the University of Oregon changed application systems on October 18 th , 2016, and previous log-in information does not work in the new system. I clicked “Forgotten your password?” and it didn’t send me an email, what should I do? Please check your junk email folder to see if the email is there; if not, please wait 15 minutes and look in your email again, as there may be a slight delay. The only way to reset your password is via email, so if you’re continuing to have problems, please contact uocareers@uoregon.edu to request assistance. I want to change my cover letter or other submitted application materials; how do I do that? Applications and application materials are not editable after they have been submitted, so you will need to withdraw your application and reapply with updated materials. If applications are still being accepted for the position, you may log in to the applicant portal by clicking “Sign In”, then click the red “Withdraw” button next to the application you’d like to withdraw. Then reapply with updated materials.  Your previous application and materials will not be saved, so you will need to complete all parts of the application again. Updates to application materials are not normally accepted after an application deadline has passed. If there are significant changes to your experience or education that affect your qualifications for the job after the application deadline has past, please email uocareers@uoregon.edu to request assistance. Allowing updated materials to be submitted after the close of the deadline is at the discretion of the posting department. I started an application, but didn’t submit it. How do I go back to finish my application? Log in to the applicant portal by clicking “Sign In,” then access your incomplete application and click “complete application.” Incomplete applications are deleted from the system within 15 days; if your application has been deleted and applications are still being accepted for the position, you will need to complete all parts of the application again in order to apply. If I started an application but didn’t submit it, can I still submit it after the posting deadline has passed? As long as the position is still listed on the Current Opportunities webpage , it is still possible to submit an application. However, applications submitted after the deadline may not be considered; this will be at the discretion of the hiring unit. How do I log back in to my profile? You may log in to the applicant portal by clicking “Sign In,” and entering your email address and password. If you can’t remember your password, click on the “Forgotten your password?” link on the C urrent Opportunities webpage . If you can’t remember the email address you used to create your account, please email uocareers@uoregon.edu for assistance. How do I withdraw an application? To withdraw an application, you can log in to the applicant portal by clicking “Sign In,” and enter your email address and password. Then, click the red “Withdraw” button next to the application you’d like to withdraw. What time do jobs officially close? 11:55pm Pacific Time on the date listed on the posting, unless there is another time listed in the vacancy announcement. Applications must be completed AND submitted by that time. How can I check the status of my application? You can log in to the applicant portal by clicking “Sign In” and entering your email address and password. Then, you can check the “Current Status” listed under the job information under your application. How long does it take departments to review applications? When will I know if I moved on in the search process? Review time will vary depending upon a variety of factors, including the number of applicants, complexity of the position, and availability of the search committee members. We make every effort to notify candidates as quickly as possible, typically via email, as decisions are made throughout the interview process.  You can check the current status of your application by logging in to the applicant portal by clicking “Sign In” and entering your email address and password. Then, you can check the “Current Status” listed under the job information under your application. What veteran form is needed to receive preference? Typically, the DD-214 is required. UO will provide you with a secure method to upload this document after you have completed your application and designated on the voluntary form that you are a veteran. This allows us to review your DD-214, a sensitive document, confidentially and separately from your application materials. If you do not have a DD-214, please contact uocareers@uoregon.edu . I’ve already submitted my DD-214 to document my eligibility for veterans’ preference for a previous application. Why am I being asked to submit it again? Veteran’s Preference is applied on a job-by-job basis, which allows you to decide whether or not to request preference on every job for which you apply. You will need to upload your DD-214 or other accepted eligibility documentation every time you apply for a job and designate that you are a veteran or disabled veteran under the Oregon Veterans’ Preference statute. How do I receive notification about new job opportunities? Visit the Current Opportunities webpage to subscribe to our Job Mail alerts. Job Mail alerts will not expire automatically. To unsubscribe, click the "Unsubscribe" link located at the bottom of any job mail alert email. Job Mails are sent daily based on filters you set up when subscribing. Applicant Support MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support FAQs for Users Assisting Applicants MyTrack: FAQs-Applicants Careers @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Contact Talent Acquisition Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.