Policies and Procedures: Student Workers | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Policies and Procedures: Student Workers Table of Contents: Introduction Student Employment and Equal Opportunity Policy Eligibility Classifications and Wage Rates Payroll Guidelines Hiring Procedures On the Job Injuries Layoff, Termination and Grievances Links: Student Wage Rates Sample Student Position Description References for Student Employees Consent to Release Form MyTrack training: Policies and Procedures: Student Workers - A Training Course for Supervisors of Student Employees I. Introduction Student employees are those whose major efforts are directed toward receiving a formal education, and are employed part-time in the unclassified service. The following document outlines the policies and procedures for all student employees (including work-study) except graduate teaching fellows and those in student government positions. Work-study employment is subject to additional requirements established by the office of Financial Aid & Scholarships. Questions regarding work-study status should be directed to that office. Employment of international students is subject to additional requirements based on visa status. Questions about employment of international students should be directed to International Affairs or to the Student Payroll Office. II. Student Employment and Equal Opportunity Policy The policy of employment of students by the University of Oregon is based on a philosophy which seeks to address and balance two equally important objectives: 1) furnishing valuable work experience for qualifying students (i.e., those who meet stated enrollment criteria) through the performance of necessary jobs on campus, and 2) providing financial assistance to students to help fund their academic studies. The former gives students the opportunity for experience in the real world of work by performing work important to the university. This work provides students with experience and skills attractive to future employers and complements their academic credentials. Student employment provides financial assistance in the form of on-campus work responsive to the student's class hours and schedule. However, a student's financial need should not override relative merit and qualifications when departments make hiring decisions. In the implementation of the university's student employment policy, no student shall be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, age, disability, national origin, marital or veteran status, sexual orientation, or any other extraneous considerations not directly and substantially related to effective performance (UO Policy Statement 3.600, issued 3/1/85). III. Eligibility A. Student Status To establish student status, an individual must be enrolled in an accredited educational institution, either secondary school or college. Course work offered through Continuing and Professional Education is acceptable if they are shown to be part of a student's planned and continuing course of study. Enrollment in a private vocational or business school does not satisfy eligibility requirements. When employing non-UO students, attach proof of enrollment with hiring paperwork. College and university student employees must be enrolled for a minimum of eight undergraduate quarter hours or at least five graduate quarter hours. Formally admitted graduate students who have completed course work requirements and are working on their theses may be employed as students. Enrollment in three credit hours is required to maintain status as a graduate student. Exceptions to the minimum credit hour enrollment may be made under special circumstances. Requests must be made in writing to the Talent Acquisition team in Human Resources ( talent@uoregon.edu ). It is the employing department's responsibility to verify eligibility of student employees each term by checking the Banner Student Information System or comparable documents for non-OUS students. The status of students enrolled in secondary schools may be verified by a phone call to the school administrative office. Students may take one term off from school each year and maintain eligibility for student employment. Summer term is considered a term. (Policy update 7/11/13). B. New Students A new student is recognized as such upon proof of acceptance for admission. New students are eligible for employment the term before they start school. If registration does not appear in the Banner Student Information System, departments must specify in writing why the student has not registered prior to school starting and include this documentation with the hiring paperwork. C. Employment of Minors If the student is a minor, there are specific Bureau of Labor (BOLI) regulations which apply. Proof of age (copy of a driver's license, passport or birth certificate) must be filed in the department. Each year OHR, on behalf of the university, renews the annual employment certificate (on file with BOLI) which gives all departments the right to hire minors between the ages of 14 and 17. D. Loss of Student Status Exceptions may be granted to allow students to work one additional term after graduation to complete projects and special assignments.  Exception requests must be approved in advance.  Please e-mail your request to the Student Payroll Specialist in Central Payroll.  Requests should include the student's 95#. Graduate Teaching Fellows may be eligible to work as a student employee one term past graduation.  Requests should include a brief summary of the work to be performed, confirmation from the supervisor, graduate program director, or department head that no other graduate student is qualified, eligible, and willing to perform the work, and pay rate. International students generally are not eligible for employment after graduation. Questions about international students' visa status and eligibility to work one term past graduation should be directed to the Division of Global Engagement. IV. Classifications and Wage Rates A. Position Descriptions Student position descriptions are required to be listed in the University of Oregon Student Jobs Database and students should be given a copy of their position description. Position descriptions are required for reporting purposes and give student employees clear job expectations. B. Classifications There are several levels of student employment recognizing various skill levels required to perform student jobs. See Student Wage Rates for a brief description of student pay levels. C. Wage Rates Student wage rates are revised periodically.  Student Assistant 5 wage rates must be approved in advance and in writing or via e-mail by the Senior Recruiter in Human Resources. The request must include a description of the professional level skills required, the name of the student employee, and the requested pay rate. Approval is necessary before student employment forms can be processed by the Payroll Department. Most student positions are non-exempt and thus, students are paid an hourly rate. Non-exempt employees are subject to minimum wage and overtime regulations. Approval of exceptions to hourly pay must be requested in advance and in writing by Human Resources. V. Payroll Guidelines A.  Maximum Hours of Work Student employees are students first and foremost and, in recognition of this, are limited to working 25 hours per week. Because of the visa requirements for international students, these students may not work more than 20 hours per week. This limit includes all university student employment positions held simultaneously.  It is suggested that supervisors of students working a high number of hours (18 to 25) confirm each term that their student workers remain in good academic standing. IMPORTANT NOTE: Students are eligible for sick leave.  Any sick leave taken counts in the calculation of working hours in the week.  In some instances, the supervisor can reschedule work during the week so that the student does not miss any working hours and sick leave will not be taken. During term breaks and one term each year, students on leave from school may be employed full-time.  Summer term is considered a term for this purpose. Students may have Graduate Employee (GE) appointments and also work as student employees. These students are limited to .49 FTE employment counting both GE and student employment hours, and may lose their GE appointments if they exceed this limit. University Housing Live-in Student Staff (i.e., Residence Assistants, Language Assistants, etc.) are a special category of student employment. These students receive room and board, a small monthly payroll stipend, and are available to provide assistance to students living in the residence halls. These employees do not work traditional hours and it is expected that they spend a maximum average of twenty (20) hours per week carrying out their duties. Resident Assistants are permitted to serve in the Resident Assistant role while simultaneously employed by other on or off-campus jobs with advance approval from University Housing as outlined in the Role Agreement. B. Attendance Records Student time record sheets are required to report hours of work for payment purposes. These records satisfy federal and state regulations. Forms are available on the web in the Banner Guide or from the Payroll Department. C. Overtime The Bureau of Labor and Industries requires that non-exempt employees be paid overtime at the rate of one and one-half times the regular rate of pay for all hours worked in excess of 40 in one week. Student employees are not eligible to earn comp time. D. Breaks and Meal Periods Because almost all student positions are considered non-exempt, departments must follow Bureau of Labor and Industries regulations regarding breaks and meal periods. Students must be given at least a 10 minute break for every four hour stretch of work, or major portion thereof, approximately in the middle of the stretch of work. Minors under the age of 18 must be given a 15 minute break. Two hours is considered a "major portion" of a four hour shift of work, thus students should be given breaks for any shift of more than two hours. Meal periods must be given to employees who work six hours or more in a shift. Meal periods must be 30 minutes without interruption to be unpaid time. Please contact the Talent Acquisition team in Human Resources if you have questions about the scheduling of breaks and meal periods for student employees. E. Paid Leave Student employees do not receive paid leave for holidays, jury duty, or vacation. Student employees are eligible for sick leave and accrue one hour of sick leave for every 30 hours worked. However, student employees receiving work study do not accrue sick leave, as the work study fund does not allow for earned sick leave. This only applies when work hours are reported under work study or hours are paid through work study. Graduate Employees accrue sick leave pursuant to their collective bargaining agreement. F. Premium Pay Premium rates such as holiday pay and night differential do not apply to student employees. VI. Hiring Procedures A. Recruitment In order to support inclusive hiring practices and make opportunities available to all interested and potentially qualified students, hiring departments are required to post open positions on Handshake , the UO Career Center’s online database. To comply with Equal Employment Opportunity guidelines, hiring departments are encouraged to publicize student positions widely, so additional methods may be utilized in conjunction with Handshake. If you have any questions or issues with posting to Handshake, please contact the UO Career Center directly at (541) 346-3235 or jobs@uoregon.edu . B. Work-Study Departments hiring work-study students are responsible for having a position description on file in their department. Department must use the RSACWSE form in Banner to verify whether or not a student has a work-study award offer, and must review students' class schedules each term, as students are not to work during regularly scheduled class time. Questions regarding work-study should be referred to the Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships at (541) 346-3221. C. Job Applications Students are required to complete applications in each department where they seek work. Application information will enable the employing department to evaluate the student's ability to perform job requirements. The Senior Recruiter in Human Resources can provide sample applications and is available for consultation. Student applications and search records (interview notes and reference check information) must be kept on file for one year. D. Priority Applicants The student employment program exists primarily for the benefit of students enrolled at the University of Oregon and employment priority shall be given to those students. Students enrolled at other institutions may be employed only when reasonable efforts to recruit qualified students on this campus have been exhausted. Departments may impose additional requirements when filling positions. For instance, University Housing gives priority to residents, both in residence halls and family housing. E. Immigration Reform and Control Act Hiring departments must comply with university policies and procedures regarding the Immigration Reform and Control Act. Students must provide evidence of their identity and employment eligibility and complete an I-9 form as a part of the hiring process. Departments shall send completed I-9 forms to the Payroll Department for filing. If a student has an I-9 form on file from previous student employment at the university, indicate on the hiring paperwork that an I-9 form is on file. VII. On-the-Job-Injuries If a student employee is injured on the job, the accident reporting procedures are the same as for regular staff. The employing department must immediately send a completed Safety Incident or Accident Report (SIAR) and Workers' Compensation Claim Form (801) to the Office of Risk Management . VIII. Layoff, Termination, Grievances If a layoff is necessary due to lack of work, lack of funds, reorganization or other reasons not reflecting discredit on the student employee, reasonable notice in writing shall be given. Students may be terminated if their performance is deficient or if their behavior does not merit continued employment. Supervisors are encouraged to give the student opportunity to correct his or her deficiencies prior to termination. No written notification is required, but is strongly recommended. A student who wishes to grieve any employment related issue, including disciplinary action, may use the relevant university grievance procedure. The Student Advocacy Program can assist students with formal and informal means of grievance resolution; the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance can assist students with issues of employment discrimination. Hiring Students MyTrack: Recruitment Module Careers @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Policies and Procedures References Sample Student Position Description Student Employment Enhancement (SEE) Student Hire Payroll Packet Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Contact Talent Acquisition Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.