Human Resources Subject Areas and Competencies | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Human Resources Subject Areas and Competencies blocks.jpeg We offer the information on this page to help create a shared understanding of the competencies that unit-based human resources staff, managers, and leaders should develop and cultivate in each subject area.  We look forward to continuing to explore the ways in which our various roles can and should intersect to create a supportive and efficient HR structure at the UO. Jump to subject area competencies: General HR Competencies Benefits Classification & Compensation Talent Acquisition Employee & Labor Relations Learning & Development HR Data & Systems General Competencies Community-Wide Competencies Demonstrated ability to advance diversity and inclusion efforts through their own actions and influencing actions of others. Understanding of effective supervisory practices and techniques, employee and employer relationships, and management principles. Discretion, tact, and professionalism when handling sensitive and or confidential materials. Aptitude or experience leveraging a wide array of technologies, such as an applicant tracking system, productivity, and communication tools. This includes accessing web-based reference material. Building productive relationships with internal and external constituencies. Exercises good judgment, diplomacy, professional boundaries and perceptual objectivity to effectively and appropriately make decisions. Leader and Manager Competencies Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of strategic HR in context of one or more of the following areas: policy, process, organizational culture, laws/regulations, collective bargaining agreements, and practical realities. Aptitude and skill to describe options for top management clearly and concisely. This includes continued efforts to maintain knowledge of changes and trends in Human Resources and within the context of their unit. Demonstrated in-depth knowledge of three of any of the following HR subject matters: compensation, benefits, recruitment, employee development, employee and labor relations, and HR systems, data, and analytics. Ability to communicate effectively and build productive relationships with external and internal contacts, including presentation and facilitation skills. Long range planning: Identifies long-range goals and designs realistic plans to attain them; sees the big picture and then determines which direction to take and how to use resources to attain future goals. Identifies the elements of a problem and understands which components are critical; sees different types of situation structures and therefore, different types of solutions. Aptitude to define problems, identify trends, collect data, and establish facts to draw valid conclusions. Exercises good judgment, diplomacy, and objectivity to effectively and appropriately make decisions. Experience working both independently and collaboratively with staff, faculty, various levels of the organization, and University Human Resources to identify and implement strategic HR solutions. Utilizes critical thinking skills to determine when a topic/issue should be elevated to subject matter experts in University Human Resources. Demonstrated ability to manage change in a complex environment and adjust planning and activities to support changing priorities. HR/Personnel Transaction Processing Competencies Maintain a working knowledge of HR processes and procedures. Identify issues and make connections with the appropriate resources to resolve matters. Prepare and complete necessary HR transactions in an accurate and timely manner. Uses critical thinking skills to determine when a topic/issue should be elevated to subject matter experts in either unit HR leadership or University Human Resources. HR Subject Area Competencies Benefits Understands and demonstrates knowledge of general concepts, principles and practices related to a vast array of benefit programs, such as retirement plans, insurance, injury compensation, non-insurance benefits (paid and unpaid leaves, child care, wellness programs, etc.) and other employee benefits programs. Understands process for UO employees to access benefits information and general awareness of eligibility requirements. Understands UO, State, and Federal leave benefits, general eligibility rules, and understands who to refer employees to for additional information. Classification & Compensation Demonstrates knowledge of compensation and classification concepts and principles, including UO pay structures and practices. Develops, monitors, and maintains unit based compensation related practices to include hours of work and schedules, flexible work weeks, remote work options, etc. consistent with UO policy. Implements UO pay-increase programs including merit pay programs consistent with UO policy and collective bargaining agreements. Has knowledge of compensation-related laws, rules, regulations, policies, and collective bargaining agreements; understands their impact to the unit, and how to implement and apply them to maintain compliance. Ability to analyze and recommend approaches to address issues such as compression, noncompetitive pay rates, retention offers, expansion of duties, and inconsistent titling and pay within UO policy. Provides compensation advice and consultation to managers and supervisors consistent with UO policy. Demonstrated ability to work with supervisors to create effective and accurate position descriptions, as well as ability to analyze and recommend appropriate classifications for positions. Talent Acquisition Understands and demonstrates knowledge of the concepts, principles and practices related to identifying, attracting, selecting and retaining individuals to address institutional needs consistent with UO policy and procedures. Partners with hiring managers to ensure search processes and selection decisions are compliant with policy, laws, and regulations, and selections are appropriately documented. Understands relevant HR laws, rules, regulations, and UO policy related to recruiting and hiring (e.g., veteran’s preference, OEPA, adverse action, etc.) Familiarity with typical recruitment metrics and their use in meeting key performance indicators. Advises on and utilizes a full spectrum of recruitment strategies when working with managers on searches. Maintains knowledge of UO talent management system (MyTrack) and authorized processes and procedures. Maintains knowledge of the labor market and recruiting resources for managers supported. Oversees or advises search or selection committees, including developing strategies consistent with best practice and compliant with applicable laws. Assist managers with presenting offer packages and negotiation strategies. Establishes University onboarding approach to ensure an effective transition for incoming employees. Demonstrated ability to strategically evaluate and consult with supervisors on current and future workforce needs, trends, and organizational structures. Employee & Labor Relations Understands and demonstrates knowledge of laws, rules, regulations, UO policy/procedure, applicable unit level policies and procedures, principles and practices related to employee conduct, employee leaves, workplace accommodations, motivation, performance, rewards and dispute resolution. Understands practices and policies at UO regarding a unionized workforce, including the ELR interpretation of collective bargaining agreements. Demonstrates knowledge of a variety of HR issues to include performance management, employee conduct and other work life issues. Identifies, evaluates, and recommends management interventions to solve problems and issues consistent with UO labor agreements, policies, procedures and practice. Ability to communicate difficult and complicated messages to leadership, supervisors and employees regarding complex employment issues, tough decisions, available options and associated risks. Ability to provide strategic leadership and direction to unit leaders and supervisors regarding unit culture and climate. This includes being able to provide advice on and weigh risks associated with employee actions and the unit’s climate and culture. Ability to work collaboratively with employees, supervisors and the ADA coordinator on accommodation analyses including but not limited to undue hardship reviews, reasonable accommodations and funding sources. Understands concepts related to progressive discipline, investigations, just cause/due process, Weingarten rights, Union rights around communicating with members (signs, shirts, postings, email, etc.) Applies knowledge of consensus building, negotiation, coalition building, meditation and other non-adversarial problem-solving approaches to resolve problems and advise management. Learning & Development Demonstrates knowledge of professional development and training concepts and resources. Designs and implements development activities for employees for current and future roles and/or assists with finding available resources and training opportunities, such as those available in the UO MyTrack system. Advises and coaches supervisors to enable them to help employees formulate professional development plans and career goals. Establishes mentoring opportunities for employees, as appropriate. Supports a culture of continuous learning within the unit; encourages supervisors to provide dedicated time for employees to participate in development opportunities. HR Data, Systems & Analytics Leverages HRIS reporting available to assist with influencing unit decisions. Identifies needed data and requests reports as needed to assist with obtaining the information. Understands UO data constructs and uses this understanding to assist with maintaining or improving unit workflows to maintain or improve data quality. Interprets how metrics and analytics work to maximize individual and unit performance as well as influence unit decisions. Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.