MyTrack Learning: Tips & Instructions | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home MyTrack Learning: Tips & Instructions Instructions Build Your Skills Are you interested in building a specific skill? Search the learning library by competencies. Competencies are skills or knowledge that lead to successful performance. Learning activities in the Learning library are tagged with defined competencies to allow you and your supervisor to search for learning opportunities that develop specific skills, such as communication, customer service, leadership or supervision. Here's how to search activities by competency: Log into MyTrack, select "My community" from the main menu, and then select "Learning library" from the drop down menu. On the Learning library page, click on "Competencies" from the menu bar to view the list of available competencies. Click on a competency to view all learning activities related to that competency. To learn more about an activity listed, or to register, click on the title of the activity. To begin a new search, unclick the competency previously selected from the competencies menu. Find Upcoming Courses with the Calendar Curious what courses are offered in the next few weeks? Browse the learning library using the calendar view. The learning calendar lets you view upcoming learning activities by date as an alternative to searching by course title. The calendar view lists the activities offered each day and provides a snapshot of course availability. Here's how to access the learning calendar view: Log into MyTrack, select "My community" from the main menu, and then select "Learning calendar" from the drop down menu. Scroll from month to month using the navigation arrows next to the month name. Using your mouse, hover on a course title for location, description, and availability. Click on a course title to learn more and register. From the calendar view, click on the tile icon on the right side of the search box to return to the Learning library view. Track Your Learning Did you complete a professional development activity that was not offered through MyTrack? Add conferences, workshops, webinars or any other completed learning activities to your development plan. This allows you to track learning activities beyond those registered and completed in MyTrack. Here's how to add an activity: Log into MyTrack, select "My community" from the main menu, and then select "Learning library" from the drop down menu. Click on the orange circle with the plus symbol (+), which is located next to the search box. Select "Private" when asked "What type of activity would you like to add?" Enter the information about the activity in the fields provided. Select "Add to plan" at the bottom of the page and select the appropriate status of the activity from the options provided. Add the intended or actual completion date and select "Book" or "Confirm." The activity is now listed on your development plan. Private learning activities are viewable by you and your supervisor. View Your Development Plan Are you looking for your development plan in MyTrack? Your MyTrack development plan tracks your learning activity. You can view your development plan at any time to see upcoming activities you are registered to complete, activities you have already completed, and those pending approval. Here’s how to access your development plan: Select "About me" from the main menu, and then select "Development plan" from the drop down menu. Select the various tabs to view your activities: In progress/Upcoming —activities you have started but not finished, or you are scheduled to attend in the future Completed —activities you were registered to attend and completed Pending approval —activities you have registered for that require approval from a supervisor or a course administrator Shared with me —activities that others have thought you would be interested in Remove an Activity Is there an activity on your development plan that needs to be removed? Keep your development plan accurate by updating information and removing activities you did not attend or are no longer able to attend. Select "About me" from the main menu, and then select "Development plan" from the drop down menu. Find the activity you wish to remove from the appropriate tab of your development plan (i.e. in progress, complete, pending, or shared). Open and expand the activity by clicking on the title. Select “Remove” from the options at the bottom of the listing. If the course is administrator managed, you will have to contact mytrackhelp@uoregon.edu and request that your registration be removed. Share an Activity Did you find an activity that you think someone else would be interested in? You can share learning activities in the Learning library with other employees. Open the activity you would like to share. Click the "Share" button at the bottom of the listing. Enter the name of the employee you would like to share the activity with. You will be prompted to select from a list of names in the system. Select the appropriate name and click "Share." The learning activity will appear on the employee's development plan under the "Shared with me" tab. Frequently Asked Questions I tried to select a timeslot and the only option was ‘request approval’.  What is this?  Where does it go? Some courses require an approval process.  By clicking ‘request approval,’ your request to register will be sent to the course administrator or your manager, depending on the approval process, and you will receive a response by email.  If your request is approved, you will be registered, and you will not need to take further action. How do I register for an activity that is administrator managed? You will need to contact the course administrator listed in the course description to inquire about course availability. Can I enroll in multiple sessions of the same activity? No, the system only supports selecting one timeslot option at a time.  If you’d like to attend the activity again, you will need to wait until after you have attended to re-enroll. Can I sign up for multiple waitlists for the same learning activity?  Or can I sign up for a waitlist for an earlier session and enroll in a later session? No, the system only supports one timeslot selection at a time, including waitlists.  You will need to choose your enrollment preference and enroll for only one timeslot. I want to register for a class, but I am already "booked" or "wait list" for a past activity. How do I register for an upcoming session? In order to view and book into upcoming learning activities, you need to remove the "booked" or "wait list" status for passed sessions of the same learning activity.  The Remove an Activity instructions explain this process. Still have a question? Email mytrackhelp@uoregon.edu and an HR representative will assist you. MyTrack: Learning Module Services MyTrack: Learning Module Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Staff Directory: Learning & Development Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.