Youth Programs: Protecting Minors | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Youth Programs: Protecting Minors The university provides and accommodates many programs for children and youth as part of and related to its academic programs and is dedicated to providing a safe environment for all participants.  Faculty, staff, students, student employees, graduate teaching fellows, and volunteers are expected to hold themselves to the highest standards of conduct when interacting with minors. The university recognizes both its institutional and legal obligations to ensure the safety and wellbeing of minor children that are on campus, in university facilities, participating in university-sponsored events, or involved with university affiliated individuals. The university’s Protection of Minors and Reporting of Child Abuse Policy establishes clear guidelines and standards for UO youth programs. The Protection of Minors and Reporting of Child Abuse procedures should be reviewed by all Youth Program Administrators. Required actions, tools and resources for achieving policy compliance are provided in the procedures document and summarized below. What is a Youth Program? The Protection of Minors policy applies to all youth programs.  Here is helpful information to assess what is a youth program under the policy: Youth programs are... All events, operations, endeavors, or activities designed for participation by minors and organized by the University of Oregon in which university employees or volunteers are responsible for the care, custody, or control of minors. A minor is any person under the age of 18. Typical youth programs include, but are not limited to, instructional programs, day camps, overnight camps, and sports camps. To better understand what is and what is not considered a youth program, take a look at the descriptions provided on the What is a Youth Program webpage . The university is committed to ensuring the safety and well being of minor children that participate in UO affiliated or UO sponsored virtual youth programing. If you are hosting a virtual youth program review the guidelines to ensure you are in compliance. Virtual Youth Program Guidelines Steps to Compliance The key to complying with the Protection of Minors Policy is to designate a Youth Program Administrator and follow three critical steps. Youth Program Administrator The Youth Program Administrator (YPA) is essential to ensuring compliance.  Primary responsibilities include: Registering youth program and certifying compliance with required actions as described below will occur prior to minors being present for a youth program. Confirming the university employees and volunteers have received required training. Retaining records of training, hiring documents, and volunteer forms. Ensuring each program follows the current American Camp Association guidelines for staff ratios . Complete a program summary report in Excel spreadsheet format and email to riskmanagement@uoregon.edu. Youth Program Administrators and youth program staff that are paid university employees are considered Campus Security Authorities (CSA). CSA’s must complete Campus Security Authority Online Training to understand their reporting responsibilities. This is a onetime training requirement. Temporary hires and student employees can review the Campus Security Authority Online Training here . Additional information about CSA reporting responsibilities is available on the Clery website . If you have difficulty accessing the training please contact riskmanagement@uoregon.edu . Required Action STEP 1: Hire Program Staff Notify HR of intent to hire summer camp employees. Visit the Seasonal Employment webpage for more information. Complete background checks for volunteers, employees and students working with minors. Background check clearance is required every two years. Visit the Background Check Guidelines webpage for instructions and form. Complete the volunteer form and submit a copy to the Office of Risk Management . Visit the Volunteers webpage for instructions and form. Retain records , which include hiring documents, background check clearance and volunteer forms, according to UO records retention requirements. STEP 2: Register Program Register youth program annually with the Office of Risk Management. Enroll in Insurance : Registration and Enrollment Link Waiver of Liability needs to be completed by all participants (3 year required record retention by department). Model Release form needs to be completed if you intend on taking photo/video. Youth programs hosted by third-party contractors must be registered by the UO entity facilitating the contract. STEP 3: Train Staff Conduct required trainings and document participant completion . Required trainings include: Protection of Minors policy and procedures Conduct requirements "Protecting Children" (One time required completion of online course) Campus Security Authority Online training (One time mandatory training requirement for paid youth program employees) Youth Programs Emergency Management Planning and Training -all programs are required to complete and review with staff and volunteer prior to the start of the program. Conduct additional training , if needed.  Visit the Training Employees webpage for resources. Complete a program summary report ( Excel spreadsheet format ) and email to riskmanagement@uoregon.edu. Mandatory Reporting of Child Abuse and Neglect Visit our Mandatory Reporting of Child Abuse and Neglect webpage for information about making a report and to view more resources to help you understand your reporting obligations. Emergency Planning and Safety Youth programs must have an emergency preparedness plan in place prior to the start of the program.   The Youth programs must have procedures in place to respond to known health conditions, including medication management and any other reasonable accommodations, and health related emergencies. The offices of Emergency Management and Continuity and Risk Management and Insurance collaborated to create the following template for those departments hosting youth programs to create their emergency preparedness plan: Youth Programs Emergency Management Planning Air Quality Index (AQI) Wildfire smoke and children The UO has established guidelines for outdoor activities during times of poor air quality due to wildfire smoke. Per UO guidance , outdoor youth programs should be curtained or moved indoors when AQI is greater than 100.  University and third party hosted programs on University property are required to follow these guidelines and have plans in place to protect children during smoky conditions.  Youth Program Administrators may register with the office of Risk Management to receive updates on AQI. Safety & Risk Services has established a notification tool to notify supervisors for certain air quality thresholds to meet OHSA requirements for outdoor workers. Youth program leads should ensure that they are included in this notification system, by completing this online form . Thunder or Lightning Outdoor activities should be curtailed and moved indoors when lightning is in the area. UO guidance is that outdoor activities should pause when lightning is within 8 miles of campus. Resources Youth Program Emergency Management Planning Emergency Contact and Authorization Form Youth Programs Tool Kit The Office of Risk Management and the Office of Human Resources work in partnership to ensure compliance with the Protection of Minors Policy . Each department offers tools and resources to assist and support administration of youth programs on campus and compliance with the Protection of Minors policy. Risk Management: Registration, Volunteers, Waivers, Emergency Procedures Human Resources: Hiring Staff, Background Checks, Training Frequently Asked Questions Programs & Services Events and Recognition Programs Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.