Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Training FAQ | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Training FAQ What do I do if I get a pop up blocker message when I try to load the training? Who is required to complete the training? When am I expected to complete the training? How do I access the training? What do I do if the training is not located on my development plan? Why can I not log-in to MyTrack? I need assistance accessing MyTrack. Who can I contact? What do I do if the training is not located on my development plan? How do I verify that I completed the training? I completed the training, but it is not showing as complete on my MyTrack development plan. What should I do? After clicking on a hyperlink in the training, the training just reloads the same slide. What should I do? I clicked the correct answer in response to what to do if someone is harassing you, why does the training indicate I answered it incorrectly? I am having technical issues with the training, who do I contact? What should I do if I do not have access to a computer? How do I get assistance with my accessibility needs? Will I be paid for completing the training? Where can I access additional resources or information? What do I do if I get a pop up blocker message when I try to load the Training? In most browsers, selecting the 'Launch Course' button beneath the pop up blocker error message in MyTrack will load the training. Alternatly, you can override the pop up blocker by holding down the Ctrl key while you select the Launch Course button. Who is required to complete the training? All active faculty, officers of administration, classified staff, and graduate employees are required to complete the training. Student employees and certain temporary employee groups are not required to take this training, but are strongly encouraged to do so. When am I expected to complete the training? As part of the university's continued commitment to maintaining an environment free from discrimination, harassment, and retaliation all existing faculty, staff, and graduate employees have until March 25, 2022 to complete the training. New hires should complete the training within ninety days of employment. Employees will then be expected to complete the training every two years throughout their employment. How do I access the training? The training can be accessed through MyTrack . Chrome is the preferred browser. The training is also accessible through MyTrack by searching for “harassment and discrimination” in the learning library or through your development plan. If you still cannot access the training, please email mandatorytraining@uoregon.edu . What do I do if the training is not located on my development plan? You can access the training directly: Go to training. Your completion will be automatically tracked on your development plan regardless of how you access the training through MyTrack. Why can I not log-in to MyTrack? Only active University of Oregon employees can access MyTrack. If you are an active employee, make sure you are using the correct DuckID and password. If you were recently hired, please verify with your HR partner that you are an active employee in Banner. In addition, there may be a slight delay between filling out your hire paperwork and gaining access to MyTrack. If you have any questions, please reach out to mytrackhelp@uoregon.edu . I need assistance accessing MyTrack. Who can I contact? Please email mytrackhelp@uoregon.edu for assistance. How do I verify that I completed the training? You can verify any training status from your development plan. To find out if you completed the Workplace Harassment and Discrimination Prevention training: Log-in to MyTrack, select "About me" from the main menu, and then select "Development plan" from the drop down menu. Select the “Completed” tab. If the Workplace Harassment and Discrimination Prevention training is listed, MyTrack has tracked your completion. I completed the training, but it is not showing as complete on my MyTrack development plan. What should I do? Relaunch the training and ensure the last slide fully loaded prior to closing the window (you should see a messafe that indicates you have completed the course and instructs you to close the window).Close the training window and wait until MyTrack records your completion (you should see a green smiley face). You can then verify your completion status by viewing you development plan. If the issue persists, please email learning@uoregon.edu . After clicking on a hyperlink in the training, the training just reloads the same slide. What should I do? This issue occurs because the link opens a new brownser window and requires the user to navigate to the training window. PC Users: Navigate back to the training widow by pressing Alt+Tab. Continue holding the Alt key and tab through the preview windows to select the training window. Mac Users : Control and click with your mouse on the Chrome icon and select the training window. I clicked the correct answer in response to what to do if someone is harassing you, why does the training indicate I answered it incorrectly? This question is a bit tricky. Note that it is asking for an inappropriate response. The correct answer is the wrong response to this situation. I am having technical issues with the training, who do I contact? If you are experiencing technical difficulties, please email mytrackhelp@uoregon.edu for assistance. What should I do if I do not have access to a computer? Contact your unit’s Human Resources representative to discuss alternative arrangements.  If you are unsure of whom to contact, please contact learning@uoregon.edu . How do I get assistance with my accessibility needs? The University of Oregon is committed to ensuring all employees are able to view and access the training. If you need an accommodation or have accessibility needs, please contact learning@uoregon.edu . Will I be paid for completing the training? The training is a work-related task, and employees will be paid for the time it takes to complete the training. Please contact your supervisor to make arrangements for completing the training. Where can I access additional resources or information? If you are interested in learning about other forms of training, please submit a training request form . Pin Google Chrome to your task bar. Restart the training. When you link to the external site, instead of navigating back to the training using the tabs on your browser, hover your mouse over the icon for chrome on the taskbar. A thumbnail image of the training should pop up. Clicking on the image of the training will return you to the course. Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Services MyTrack: Learning Module New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Training FAQ Supervisor Reminder Letter Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Staff Directory: Learning & Development Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.