Learning Challenges | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Learning Challenges The Monthly Learning Challenge is a self-paced professional development opportunity from Learning and Development at the University of Oregon. In each challenge, we will guide you through a series or recommended online learning resources - including short videos, tutorials, reading, or other materials - based around a specific topic or theme. Resources will be organized for you on the LinkedIn Learning platform so you can easily track your progress and access the learning materials. We've designed Learning Challenges so that employees can participate on their own or as a group. Each month, you will find a series of independent and team activities that you can complete as part of the Learning Challenge. These include thought exercises, writing prompts, opportunities to plan and set goals, discussion prompts, and more. Featured Learning Challenge: May 2024 Build the Right Soft Skills for Today and Tomorrow Soft skills are needed in almost every aspect of your team's work. This challenge will help you develop these fundamental skills to effectively communicate, expand emotional intelligence, and create deeper connections with the people around around you. Start the Challenge Past Learning Challenges Content Areas Leadership and Supervison Communication, Collaboration, and Relationship Building Planning and Productivity Thinking and Problem Solving Wellness in the Workplace Navigating Your Career and Professional Development Leadership and Supervision Title Description Self-Leadership This learning challenge focuses on self-leadership.  You will learn what it means to be a self-leader and will work to identify your own self-leadership strategy.  You  will get motivated to hold yourself accountable and will begin setting strategic goals for yourself.  Finally, you will identify specific actions you can take right now to help you accomplish those goals. Communication, Collaboration, and Relationship Building Title Description Customer Service In this Learning Challenge, you will explore how to provide exceptional customer experience by building rapport with customers, understanding customer needs, and practicing active listening. You'll discover ways to prevent negative emotions during customer interactions, recognize the warning signs of conflict, and use de-escalation tactics when conversations become heated. You'll also learn about coping techniques that can help you care for yourself when dealing with the more challenging aspects of customer service. Finally, you will explore customer service leadership and techniques for developing a customer service strategy. Providing and Receiving Feedback This Learning Challenge focuses on giving and receiving feedback. You'll learn how to ask for feedback, how to respond to both positive and negative feedback, and how to control your emotional reactions during feedback conversations. You'll explore the steps you need to take to implement the feedback you receive, including processing, prioritizing, and applying the feedback to your work. You'll also discover how to create a healthy relationship with feedback that can help you grow in your career. Finally, you’ll learn how to give feedback to others in a clear, direct, and empathetic way. Developing Emotional Intelligence This Learning Challenge focuses on emotional intelligence. You’ll learn why emotional intelligence is important, and how it positively impacts personal well-being and career success. You’ll explore the four key components of emotional intelligence: self-awareness, self-regulation, social awareness, and relationship development. You’ll discover how self-awareness can allow you to recognize and understand your own emotions, strengths, and weaknesses, while self-regulation empowers you to manage and control your emotional responses. Finally, you’ll learn how using empathy can strengthen your connections and relationships, and how you can use emotional intelligence to navigate social situations and manage conflicts in the workplace. Creating Safe and Inclusive Environments at Work This Learning Challenge focuses on creating a safe and inclusive workplace. You will gain a deeper understanding of DIBE (Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging, and Equity) and the detrimental effects of bias and microaggressions on individuals and workplace environments. You will develop the confidence and skills to recognize and speak up against bias and advocate for inclusivity in your workplace. Additionally, you will learn strategies for inclusive conversations and the importance of personal responsibility in driving positive change and building inclusive workplace environments. Planning and Productivity Title Description Setting and Achieving Goals This Learning Challenge focuses on setting and achieving professional and personal goals. You will discover strategies for setting attainable goals and defining, categorizing, and refining them and will create an action plan to achieve your goals using the SMART framework. Then, you will learn techniques you can use to find the motivation to reach your goals, maintain your momentum, take action when you're feeling discouraged, and celebrate your successes. Planning Your Time This Learning Challenge focuses on time management. You’ll discover how to best prioritize your work, plan your schedule, manage spare time, and prepare for distractions. You’ll explore the concept of the planning fallacy and learn how to avoid it. You’ll also learn how to set boundaries with others to protect your time in the workplace, and how to best utilize planning tools such as calendars, productivity apps, and to-do lists. Thinking and Problem Solving Title Description Embracing a Culture of Sustainability This Learning Challenge was developed by the UO Office of Sustainability in partnership with UO Learning and Development.  You will explore the concept of sustainability through a dynamic systems thinking lens, and will learn strategies for developing a more sustainable workplace.  You will find out about the impact of food waste on the environment, and will learn about how to compost, both at home and in your office. Wellness in the Workplace Title Description Beating Loneliness at Work This Learning Challenge focuses on beating loneliness at work. You will explore the concept of loneliness, how it affects the brain, and receive tips on moving forward and starting to build better connections with others. You will learn how to make new connections, maintain, and deepen the relationships you have at work. An additional section is included about building connections remotely, identifying strategies for making connections in a remote workplace environment. Managing Stress and Burnout This Learning Challenge focuses on coping with and preventing stress and burnout. You will learn what to do when you experience stress and some tactics for preventing stressful situations at work. You will explore the different types of burnout, and the common causes of burnout and steps you can take to recover and to prevent burnout in the future. Health and Wellness in the Workplace This Learning Challenge focuses on physical and mental well-being in the workplace. You'll discover the importance of physical health and learn how to incorporate exercise, healthier eating habits, and improved sleep routines to boost your energy throughout the day. You'll discover a convenient chair workout and desk-friendly stretches that effectively alleviate tension, all within the comfort of your workspace. You'll explore self-care practices such as mindfulness, breathwork, and gratitude journaling that can boost your mood and reduce stress. You'll also learn how to create lasting, positive habits, and how to set boundaries to create a healthy work-life balance. Developing Resilience This Learning Challenge focuses on resilience. You will learn what resilience is and how it can benefit you. You will explore methods to enhance resilience, including positive thinking, self-confidence, and cultivating a growth mindset. You will be challenged to move outside your comfort zone and practice being uncomfortable to help you prepare for adverse experiences. Finally, you will discover techniques for recovering from difficult situations, and how to shift your perspective to see adversity as an opportunity for personal growth. Navigating Your Career and Professional Development Title Description Learning on the Job: Cultivating a Growth Mindset Throughout Your Career This Learning Challenge focuses on cultivating a growth mindset and lifelong learning practices. You will discover how approaching your work with a committment to learning can positivily impact your professional experience, lead to new opportunities, and help you develop resilience and agility when faced with change. You will have the opportunity to perform a skills self-assement and create a personal learning plan so that you can set priorities and incorporate learning into your working life. Finally, you will find out about specific ways to learn on the job - such as using LinkedIn Learning, finding opportunties for mentorship, and UO specific learning resources. Building Your Professional Network This Learning Challenge focuses on professional networking. You'll learn where to find networking opportunities, both online and in person, and how to best leverage each opportunity to build your network. You'll discover how to navigate networking events, initiate conversation, ask interesting questions, and make a lasting impression to stand out from the crowd. You'll learn the best methods for following up after initial contact, nurturing rapport, and staying in touch with your network to forge lasting, meaningful professional relationships. You'll also explore the many ways you can leverage your network for support, collaboration, and growth. Online and Self-Guided Learning Services MyTrack: Learning Module New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Staff Directory: Learning & Development Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.