Flexible Work Arrangements Process | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Flexible Work Arrangements Process Careful consideration should be given to a flexible work arrangment to set the employee and the unit or department up for success. Follow this 3-step process to evaluate, approve, and implement a flexible work arrangement: Assess eligibility considerations for both the position and the incumbent. Request and approval. Implementation, monitoring, and on-going management of FWA. Types of Flexible Work Arrangements: The Flexible Work Arrangements Policy outlines specific types of flexible work arrangements: Flex Schedule/Flex Time Compressed Work Week Remote Work (Telecommuting) - See guidance Reduced Work Week (Part-time)/ Reduced Work Year Job Sharing Detailed descriptions of each type are provided in the FWA guide . 1. Assess Eligibility Considerations: FWAs can be a benefit in many situations; however, it does not mean they will be appropriate for every unit, every job type, and for every employee. When considering implementing a FWA, leaders should evaluate the eligibility of both the position and the incumbent. Establishing position-based FWA eligibility and criteria for employee readiness for an FWA helps maximize equity by giving employees in eligible positions the same access to an FWA based on whether their specific job requirements are compatible with the arrangement. It is important that departments establish fair and equitable processes to determine whether an employee is successful in the FWA. Employee eligibility: In general, employees will only be eligible for a FWA when their work is up to date and they have demonstrated the skills and qualities needed to succeed in the proposed FWA. Leaders should take the following into consideration: performance and productivity of the employee, including demonstrated ability to: prioritize work to meet deadlines understand their role and expectations be organized, highly disciplined and self-motivated communicate effectively with stakeholders, such as colleagues, their supervisor, students or other customers and campus partners Manage time effectively current attendance patterns ability to work independently  and with minimal supervision in an effective manner whether the employee is in their trial service/probationary period whether the employee is FLSA Exempt (not eligible for overtime) or Non-Exempt (eligible for overtime.) Employees that are FLSA Exempt (not eligible for overtime) are paid on a salary basis to perform a job on a professional workweek basis. In other words, there is no maximum, or set number of hours per week. At the same time, while these employees have more flexibility in their schedules, they may nevertheless be subject to structured work schedules as set by their supervisors and may be required to receive prior approval to be absent from or leave work during the normal workweek. Non-Exempt employees are eligible for overtime and must be compensated at the rate of 1.5 times their regular rate of pay for hours over 40 worked in a workweek. These employees must track and account for time spent in the workplace, and supervisors may have greater influence over employees’ work schedules. Nevertheless, flexible work arrangements are possible with supervisor approval. Note: Represented employees may be eligible for FWAs, but leaders should consult with Employee and Labor Relations to ensure compliance with the appropriate collective bargaining agreement. Position eligibility: In order for a leader to determine if a FWA is appropriate, their primary criteria in this decision-making process should be if the FWA will meet the business needs of the workplace and if essential functions of the position can be met. The leader should consider all relevant facts and circumstances when determining whether a FWA is appropriate, which may include the following questions: What is the nature of your work? What does your unit produce or what service(s) does it provide? What are your unit’s hours of operation? What is evidence of your unit’s productivity? Is specialized equipment used? How does the work get done? What are your employees’ responsibilities? What are your employees’ current work schedules? Are the positions solitary and independent or joint and require daily contributions and interactions? Who are your customers? What are the formal and informal expectations for service? How does your unit communicate to its customers? How does your unit communicate with its employees? How do your employees communicate to each other? Where does the work get done? What is the location or place of work? Can you imagine aspects of the work being done in another location? Is distance a factor? Are there meetings or events that your employees must be present on campus for? What types of flexible arrangements are appropriate for your unit? How might current employee schedules be altered while maintaining productivity? How will job responsibilities, customer service, and productivity be maintained in new arrangements How will the employees maintain communication with your customers, co-workers, and you when working an altered schedule? Do the proposed flexible work arrangements unintentionally increase co-workers’ responsibilities or work? Example: If the employee proposes to work at home, will their phone be forwarded to their home office or will another employee in the office be expected to answer it? How will productivity be measured when the employees work altered schedules? Example: If the employee is telecommuting and is assigned a project, evidence of productivity is its on-time completion. What types of FWAs would work best in your unit? Examples: If your unit must be open for customers from 8:00am to 5:00pm, employee start time might begin as early as 7:00am or end as late as 6:00pm to accommodate closing and ending procedures. If you have adequate staff who share responsibilities, the work day might extend to accommodate 10 hour days. If the nature of your employee’s work is web work, the work could be done in another location. If all of your employees were to ask for FWAs, what kinds of arrangements might you be able to offer? Note: Not every employee will ask for a FWA and decisions to allow an FWA must be made objectively and with adequate justification if similarly situated employees are not treated consistently. Consult with Employee and Labor Relations for further guidance. 2. Request and Approval: Employees and supervisors involved in FWA of any length must proceed consistent with the Flexible Work Arrangements policy, this procedure, and with additional guidance  from HR. These arrangements must be agreed upon by both the supervisor and the employee, but ultimately it will be up to the supervisor to determine feasibility and if the FWA is approved. Schools, colleges, or divisions exploring large scale implementation of FWAs to move their employees to predominantly remote work arrangements are required to submit a request memo to the Provost (for academic units) or the President (for administrative units) for review and discussion in advance of approval or implementation of the FWAs. Informal Flexible Work Arrangements Informal or occasional FWAs of 5 days or fewer do not require a signed agreement and  may be approved by the direct supervisor, after review of these procedures. Leaders should document the agreed upon arrangement in an email or other format that can be reviewed by both the employee and supervisor. Formal Flexible Work Arrangements FWAs for 6 or more days must be in writing. The request must include enough information for their supervisor to consider the impact on the unit and general feasibility. If the  supervisor approves the initial request, the employee and supervisor must work together to complete the appropriate flexible work arrangements agreement form located on the HR website. FWAs of 6 to 30 consecutive days, or non-consecutive requests that add up to 30 days or more, require a signed agreement approved by the direct supervisor. On-going FWAs of 31 days or longer require a signed agreement  approved by the appropriate Vice President, the Athletic Director, the Provost, or their designee(s). Flexible Work Arrangement Form 3. Implementation, monitoring, and on-going management The supervisor must establish and follow a review process to evaluate any formal FWA to ensure that work standards are being met. It is recommended that evaluation meetings be held at least once every 3 months during the first year of the agreement. The every six months, or at least annually during the employee’s evaluation, there after. Failure to meet obligations of the agreement could result in the supervisor modifying or terminating the agreement. Once a FWA is in place, supervisors should take steps to ensure that employees in the unit, including those with a FWA., remain engaged, have all of the information they need, and are appropriately included in meetings, communications, team building exercises, etc. Guidance and Procedures Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Flexible Work Agreement Form Frequently Asked Questions Guidance and Procedures Process Remote Work Guide Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Representation Rights & Grievances Accommodations Performance Management Veterans Supervisor Toolkit International Employee Relations Life Events Separation Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Affirmative Action Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.