MyTrack: FAQs for Users Assisting Applicants | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home MyTrack: FAQs for Users Assisting Applicants Frequently Asked Questions: How do I upload documents to my application? Can you tell me if a specific position is available? Can I get assistance with viewing jobs or completing my online application? How long does it take departments to review applications? When will I know if I advanced? If the priority date deadline has passed, can I still apply? The priority deadline for this position has passed. Is it still worth my time to apply? Who do I address the cover letter to? Why am I being asked to submit my DD-214 again? What time do jobs officially close? If there is no "apply now" button, how do I apply? I received an incomplete application message. Can you please submit the application for me? How can I view the job description for the job I applied to? How do I view my application for the job I applied to? How do I verify my application was received? Who can I talk to if I need more information on the job I want to apply for? What veteran form is needed to receive preference? How do I complete the new hire form? How do I upload documents to my application? (For example, a resume, cover letter, or supplemental questions) Depending upon the job you are applying for, at some point in the application process you will be given an opportunity to upload documents. Upload file buttons for different document types will appear (resume/CV, cover letter, etc.) By clicking the upload button, a pop-up window will appear and you can navigate to the document you wish to upload. Once a document is uploaded, the title will be displayed on the application page. Please pay close attention to the “Special Instructions to Applicants” regarding required documents. You may need to combine multiple documents into a single file to submit them via the online application. Please note that you can upload, delete, and re-upload documents as you work on your application, but once you have submitted your application, you cannot edit these documents or upload additional ones. At that point, to make changes you would need to withdraw and resubmit your application. References are the only items that remain editable after submission. Veteran's forms should be submitted after you have completed your application. For more information see below . Can you tell me if a specific position (e.g. laborer, food service) is available? All available positions are posted online at www.careers.uoregon.edu . You can search by keyword using the position keyword search box. Can I get assistance with viewing jobs or completing my online application? If you need access to a computer or the internet to view job postings, you may go to the Eugene Public Library. The Library is located in downtown Eugene at 100 W 10 th Avenue and can be reached at 541-682-5450. If you need assistance completing the online application, you may contact WorkSource Oregon - Lane County, which is located at 2510 Oakmont Way, and can be reached at 541-686-7601. How long does it take departments to review applications? When will I know if I moved on in the search process? Review time will vary depending upon a variety of factors, including the number of applicants, complexity of the position, and availability of the search committee members. We make every effort to notify candidates as quickly as possible, typically via email, as decisions are made throughout the process. You can check the current status of your application by logging in to the applicant portal , entering your email address, and selecting a login method. From your portal, you can check your “Current status” listed under the job title. If the priority date deadline has passed, can I still apply? As long as the position is still listed on the Current Opportunities webpage , it is still possible to submit an application. However, applications submitted after the priority deadline may not be considered; this will be at the discretion of the hiring unit/search committee. The priority deadline for this position has passed. Who can I contact to find out where they are at in the process to see if it is still worth my time to apply? You may email your inquiry to uocareers@uoregon.edu , citing the job title and job number from the posting. We will pass your inquiry on to the hiring department. Who do I address the cover letter to? You may address the cover letter to the either the “Search Committee” or the “Hiring Manager.” Specific names are not required. I’ve already submitted my DD-214 to document my eligibility for veterans’ preference for a previous application. Why am I being asked to submit it again? Veteran’s Preference is applied on a job-by-job basis, which allows you to decide whether or not to request preference on every job for which you apply. You will need to upload your DD-214 or other accepted eligibility documentation every time you apply for a job and designate that you are a veteran or disabled veteran under the Oregon Veterans’ Preference statute. What time do jobs officially close? 11:55pm Pacific Time on the date listed on the posting, unless there is another time listed in the vacancy announcement. Applications must be completed AND submitted by that time. If there is no “apply now” button, how do I apply? Specific instructions on how to apply can be found in the job advertisement under “Special Instructions to Applicants." I received an incomplete application message. Can you please submit the application for me? We cannot submit applications for applicants. You can submit incomplete applications from your applicant portal. Log in to the applicant portal , by entering your email address, and selecting a login method. Incomplete applications will be noted on your home page, and you can click “Complete application” to pick up where you left off, check all fields, and submit. How can I view the job description for the job I applied to? By logging in to the applicant portal , entering your email address, and selecting a login method. Once in the portal, click the “View Application” button next to the job you want to see. The first page will display the advertised job description. How do I view my application for the job I applied to? By logging in to the applicant portal , entering your email address, and selecting a login method. Once in the portal, click the “View Application” button next to the job you want to see. The first page will display the advertised job description. Clicking the “View application” button at the bottom of the page will display your submitted application. How do I verify my application was received? Log in to the applicant portal , enter your email address, and select a login method. From the portal, you will be able to see incomplete applications listed separately toward the top of the page. Any submitted applications will appear under either the Open Searches or Closed Searches section and will include the application submitted date which is also time stamped. Who can I talk to if I need more information on the job I want to apply to? Please email uocareers@uoregon.edu and your request will be forwarded to the appropriate individual. What veteran form is needed to receive preference? Typically, the DD-214 is required. UO will provide you with a secure method to upload this document after you have completed your application and designated on the voluntary form that you are a veteran. This allows us to review your DD-214, a sensitive document, confidentially and separately from your application materials. If you do not have a DD-214, please contact uocareers@uoregon.edu . How do I complete the new hire form? Log in to the applicant portal , enter your email address, and select a login method. From the portal, click the “Complete the form” button the blue box (See the screen shot below.) Please complete all sections before submitting the form. newstarterform.PNG Applicant Support MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support FAQs for Users Assisting Applicants MyTrack: FAQs-Applicants Careers @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Contact Talent Acquisition Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.