UO Kids on Campus Day: FAQs | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home UO Kids on Campus Day: FAQs UO Kids on Campus Day: FAQs Q: What is UO Kids on Campus Day? A: UO Kids on Campus Day is a one-day event designed for employees to spend quality time on campus with the kids in their lives and showcase their workplace. Collaborative partners from across the institution host experiences, opportunities, activities, and tours to highlight what it is like to be a part of the UO community. We are creating and holding space for UO families to meet and engage in a shared experience. We aspire to inspire and empower the next generation through this immersive experience and opportunities that: Encourage kids to stay curious about the world around them and to set ambitious goals for their future. Expose kids to the power of higher education and help them understand the value of their education. Provide hands-on learning opportunities that ignite curiosity, foster creativity, and allow kids to discover their unique interests and talents while having fun. Q: How do we participate? A: Complete the registration form and show up on the day of the event! Authentication is required to access the registration form by using your UO Duck ID and password.  Please note that registration is required to participate in the event. Q: How do we get from event to event? A: Transportation to the University of Oregon, Eugene campus, for UO Kids on Campus Day is up to the families who are attending. All event locations will be on campus. As you go from event to event you will also have the chance to see the UO Eugene Campus in action. We will provide a map of all event locations for the day. You are strongly encouraged to use UO Campus Map (uoregon.edu) for additional help in finding your correct location. Q: Where do I check in on event day? A: UO Kids on Campus Day will start in the Lee Barlow Giustina Ballroom inside the Ford Alumni Center, which is right next door to Matthew Knight Arena. There will be check-in tables inside. Grab a picture with the Golden Duck statue on your way in or out! Q: Who may come to UO Kids on Campus Day? A: All UO employees are encouraged to invite their daughters, sons, kids, grandchildren, nieces or nephews, or any important kid in their life in 4th through 8th grade to this event. A Parent Permission and Liability Release Form, included in the registration form, must be signed by the parent or guardian for each child. Q: Do kids need a waiver to attend? A: Yes. A Parent Permission and Liability Release Form is included in the registration process and must be completed by a parent or guardian.  If you are registering a kid in your life and you are not the parent or guardian, please email UOFamilies@uoregon.edu and we will provide you the form to be completed by the parent or guardian and return directions. Q: Is lunch provided? Breakfast? A: We ask that you come fed and ready for the day as breakfast will not be provided. Lunch vouchers will be provided. Participants can claim a lunch voucher at the welcome session to enjoy lunch at the Carson Dining Hall right here on campus. Lunch vouchers can be used between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. on event day. If you’d like to explore other food options on or around campus, you may, but you will have to pay for those options as the lunch voucher is only good at Carson Dining Hall. You must be present at check-in to claim a lunch voucher. Q: At what age can children participate? A: UO Kids on Campus Day will host events geared toward kids in grades 4th through 8th grade.  You will indicate the age(s) of the child(ren) you are bringing on your registration form. Q: What if we are a “no-show” to an RSVP event? A: If you have a change in your schedule and are no longer able to attend or need to cancel due to illness, please contact us at UOFamilies@uoregon.edu or call Tiffany Lundy at 541-346-2801. Q: I can’t attend for the whole day. Can I just attend for a portion of it? A: Yes! The day is designed to give families the opportunity to experience as much or as little of the University of Oregon as they want. The first half of the day is geared towards attending an Immersive Experience. We will do our best to give participants one of their top three preferred options. The second half of the day gives you a chance to explore the UO at your own pace by taking tours or participating in drop-in activities. Q: How do employees participate in this event during work time? A: Employees need to get approval from their supervisor to take time away, shift schedules, or take time off to participate in the event if it falls during their scheduled work time. Employees need to also confirm approval for kids to visit the workplace. Supervisors are encouraged to support employee participation if possible. Q: Are there any safety rules? A: You are responsible for supervising your child(ren) at all UO Kids on Campus Day-related events. Children cannot be left unattended at any time during the day. Parents/guardians will confirm in the required liability waiver that there are no undisclosed health-related reasons or problems that will inhibit the child(ren) from safely participating in any activities. Please contact Human Resources at UOFamilies@uoregon.edu in advance to request accommodation or other health-related information. Q: How much does UO Kids on Campus Day cost? A: UO Kids on Campus Day is hosted and sponsored by University Human Resources and many campus partners, allowing for no cost to UO employees to participate. Please note that registration is required by the posted deadline. Q: What are the activities? A: A list of the activities will be posted on the UO Kids on Campus Day webpage closer to event day. Q: Any other things I should know? A: Have fun! This is a day to explore and try new things while spending time with kids who are important in your life. We want all families involved in UO Kids on Campus Day to experience the opportunities that UO has to offer. Show your kids where you work, connect with your UO community, and let your kids dream big on UO Kids on Campus Day! Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.