OA Position: Evaluate Candidates | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home OA Position: Evaluate Candidates Prepare the Search Committee The hiring manager should review the requirements, roles, and responsibilities of the search committee . The hiring manager, if not a member of the search committee, should give the search committee their charge during an initial meeting prior to application review. The charge will assist the committee in preparing the selection process and evaluating candidates. During the charge, the search chair should address The position description, including essential functions of the job, required qualifications (provide a copy of the complete position description to committee members who may not have access to the description in MyTrack—see MyTrack Position Description User Guides for more information) Key strategic issues or challenges facing the department Deliverables for the new hire’s first 30-60-90 days Information that would allow the search committee to meaningfully assess the presence of necessary professional competencies for the position This is also a good time to confirm the search committee has a clear and shared understanding regarding minimum qualifications (for example, questions may arise about what constitutes “professional experience,” whether the minimum years of experiences refers to full-time experience, etc.). Once the soft closing date or application review date passes, the search chair may contact Talent Acquisition at talent@uoregon.edu to inquire about the demographic makeup of the applicant pool compared to any defined Job Goals in the Affirmative Action Plan and availability. If the representation of women and people of color is not consistent with availability, or if the number of applications is less than desired, consideration should be given to extending the application deadline and/or increasing active recruitment strategies. Establishing Selection Criteria Prior to reviewing applications, develop a selection criteria by which the candidates will be evaluated. Criteria should be based on the essential functions documented in the position description and on the education, skills and experience needed to be successful in the position. Consider using a criteria matrix to help establish and norm on selection criteria. Must be nondiscriminatory, and directly related to job performance. Must be grounded in the position as announced – either addressed in or reasonably inferred from the job announcement. Must be free from non-job-related considerations, particularly any that negatively affect members of protected groups, such as considerations related to age, disability, ethnicity, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, etc. Must be specified in the posting vacancy announcement as either “required” (minimum qualifications) or “preferred” (desired qualifications). Required qualifications reflect minimum levels of knowledge, skills, experience, and education required to be successful in the position. If specified in the vacancy announcement, professional competencies may also be considered. Should include criteria that evaluate potential candidates’ experience with and/or commitment to ensuring a supportive educational environment for all students, faculty, and staff in a diverse workplace, and demonstrate cultural competency necessary for the successful performance of the position. Should be defined specifically enough to be useful in guiding the selection decision but should not be defined in a way that is needlessly conventional or rigid and that may have the unintended consequence of eliminating candidates with transferable knowledge and skills obtained from non-traditional career paths. Narrowly defined criteria may frustrate progress toward diversity because members of under-represented groups may be more likely to have traveled non-traditional career paths. If specified in the vacancy announcement, search committees may consider equivalent experience to substitute for educational or other requirements; search committees must be prepared to describe how they evaluated equivalent experience. For department head, dean, or administrator must include "ability to administer affirmative action policies effectively and supervise in a culturally diverse workforce." Screen Candidates All applications are screened to determine if the applicant meets the minimum qualifications of the position. All applications for applicants who meet the minimum qualifications are reviewed by the committee, based on the selection criteria previously established. If the search committee is challenged in deciding how many candidates to include on the "short list" for ongoing consideration, the search chair should contact Talent Acquisition to see if the short list of candidates includes women and people of color, and if not, whether including additional candidates in order of ranking by the committee would increase diversity in the pool of candidates under active consideration. The screening process identifies the candidates to be considered further in the interview process. Document Though the university does not specify a particular method, some form of documented methodology is required for evaluating applicants and is to be applied across the entire applicant pool. Search committees may utilize the search committee evaluation features of MyTrack to record initial evaluations of minimum and preferred requirements, and professional competencies. Non-selection reasons must be specified during disposition of candidates in MyTrack. Interview Candidates Conduct Interviews The interview phase of the evaluation process can occur in the form of phone/web conference and in-person interviews with the understanding that identified candidates are treated equitably. Travel reimbursement for prospective employees must be done according to the policies and procedures described on the Business Affairs travel reimbursement website . Vice President level approval is required to be on file if you reimburse a candidate for search-related travel expenses from institution funds. As with all steps in the selection process, consistency and fairness are critical. Interview questions must be clearly job-related and designed to help the search committee determine which candidates have the training, experience, skills and ability to best perform the essential functions of the job. Interview questions should be behavioral in nature and whenever possible address the candidates’ prior demonstrated experience. Each campus interview should include the same opportunities – meetings with constituency groups, administrators, etc. Care must be taken to gather the same job-related information for each candidate through consistency in questions posed by the search committee and input received from other constituency groups involved in the on-campus interview process. To ensure equity in the selection process, avoid: Asking additional questions of one candidate that are not asked of others except where necessary to obtain or clarify an answer to a question asked of all candidates or to clarify information in a candidate’s application materials. Asking questions that elicit personal information rather than job-related information. Some non-job-related information, such as number and age of children, can lead to impermissible discrimination. The less non-job-related information you have, the less that could possibly enter into, or be perceived as entering into, a selection decision. We have an obligation under the law to provide reasonable accommodation to both applicants and employees with disabilities. An applicant with a disability may require accommodation in order to participate in the selection process. For example, someone with a mobility impairment will require that interviews be conducted in locations that are physically accessible. Our duty to accommodate applies only to KNOWN disabilities. However, we are precluded under the ADA from making pre-employment inquiries that reasonably are intended to elicit disability-related information. In order to meet our accommodation obligation without violating the ADA, when inviting candidates for on-campus interviews it is useful to ask a carefully worded question that gives candidates the opportunity to identify any special needs without asking about a disability. Example: “Are there any special considerations of which we should be aware in planning your visit to Eugene?” Check References Checking references is a critically important part of the selection process as on-the-job performance is the most accurate predictor of future job success. As with all other steps in the selection process, consistency and fairness are paramount. Reference questions must be clearly job-related and directly relevant to the selection criteria for the position. The search committee or hiring authority can check references for multiple finalists, but they should take care to gather the same body of information for each candidate. It is recommended that at least one reference is a current or former supervisor. When you’re ready to check references, move candidates forward in MyTrack to Reference Check. Candidates will receive an automatic message letting them know that you will be contacting references. Give candidates at least 24 hours to give their references a heads up and/or update contact information for their references in MyTrack prior to reaching out. You can contact references by phone or email. Frequently Asked Questions Can I check references for multiple candidates? Yes. Please let candidates know that you’ll be checking references for multiple finalists, though. Can I contact references not supplied by the candidate? Contact your recruitment consultant to discuss this more. Do I have to check references for internal candidates? We recommend checking references for all finalists, even if they are internal. But what if the hiring authority is one of their references? Check their other references, or ask for additional contacts. If you’re checking references for multiple finalists, be consistent with the number of references you speak with. How many references do I need to talk to? Try to talk to at least two references, ideally three. What if I’ve called and haven’t heard back from a reference? Check in with your candidate to see if they have another reference or updated contact information for the person you haven’t been able to get in touch with. You can also email references to set up a mutually available time to talk. Click here for an editable guide and worksheet: Reference Guide and Worksheet Select a Final Candidate The search committee makes its recommendation(s) to the hiring authority, documenting job-related reasons supporting their recommendations for all finalists. All search documentation is forwarded to the search chair (or designee), for inclusion in the official search file. UO Policy Statement- Faculty: Hiring of Women and Minority Faculty Members Hiring Officers of Administration MyTrack: Recruitment Module Careers @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration OA Re-employment Pool Generate Candidates Evaluate Candidates Close the Search Make an Offer Direct Appointments Start a Search Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Contact Talent Acquisition Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.