Classified Position: Evaluate Candidates | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Classified Position: Evaluate Candidates Review applications and responses to supplemental questions Your next task is to screen the applications received via MyTrack and identify those candidates you wish to consider further. MyTrack contains functionality for all search committee members to review candidate materials and evaluate on minimum and preferred requirements, and professional competencies on a meets/exceeds/does not meet/cannot determine basis. Consider using a criteria matrix to norm on application review before you being. If you wish to use an alternative evaluation and selection process, including a scored search, in order to assist in your initial evaluation and ensure adequate documentation of your selection process, please complete the Candidate Evaluation Form . Other substantially similar forms may be used. If you have questions about whether your unit/department form meets documentation requirements, please email your form to talent@uoregon.edu to request review. It is the responsibility of the search committee to confirm that applicants meet or do not meet minimum qualifications.   Please see proposed interviewee review below for additional information. Minimum qualifications determinations should not be scored; whether a candidate meets minimum qualifications is a yes/no decision. Candidates who do not meet minimum qualifications should not be considered further. It is acceptable for search committee members to bring questions about candidates to the first search committee meeting. Search committees should discuss the minimum qualifications in advance of review to ensure there is consistent understanding of these requirements and bring any questions to the first search committee meeting. If you use a scored method to further evaluate preferred qualifications and supplemental questions, it is essential to identify the selection criteria that are being scored, the number of possible points for each criteria, and the total possible score at the application review stage. When you have completed this evaluation and before you schedule any interviews, please upload your Candidate Evaluation Form into MyTrack using the "Documents" tab in the requisition. Select "document from a file" and locate the document on your computer or cloud service drive. Select "recruitment process" for document category and name the file with the requisition number and job title in the title box. Note: You do not need to request that Talent Acquisition reviews your interview list, but you do need to ensure any flagged veterans in your pool have preference applied accordingly. For more information regarding veterans' preference requirements, see Oregon's Veterans' Preference in Employment. Update the applicant status for all applicants. Individuals who were not selected to proceed may either remain at "under review" status or, if they are not going to be considered further, should be set to a final disposition status and appropriate reason selected. Please note: any applicants given a final disposition status will receive an automatic courtesy notification via MyTrack that they are no longer being considered for the position at the time the status is saved. Conduct interviews Interviews are an excellent way of learning the specifics of the work experience, knowledge, and abilities each candidate would bring to the job.  Interviews give you an opportunity to evaluate the candidate, and it provides the candidate information about the job and department. The search committee can assist in developing appropriate interview questions which elicit the information needed to assess the qualifications of candidates.  Use the same set of interview questions for each candidate.  Different follow-up questions can be used to make sure their responses are complete, and it is also permissible to ask candidate-specific questions regarding their application materials. You may want to ask candidates to complete a work sample exercise in which applicants perform typical activities found in the position. For example, applicants can be asked to complete a word processing exercise in which they prepare, edit, and print letters or forms and are evaluated on the quality and quantity of work completed in the time allotted.  Other examples include drafting correspondence; setting up a spreadsheet; prioritizing a list of tasks to complete a project.  For a custodial position, you could ask candidates to make notations of special cleaning and routine repairs in a room. If a work sample exercise is included in the interview process, all interviewed candidates are to complete the same exercise. If work samples are used, document the process and keep the completed exercise and evaluation summaries. Verify Employment and Check References Checking references is a critically important part of the selection process as on-the-job performance is the most accurate predictor of future job success. As with all other steps in the selection process, consistency and fairness are paramount. Reference questions must be clearly job-related and directly relevant to the selection criteria for the position. The search committee or hiring authority can check references for multiple finalists, but they should take care to gather the same body of information for each candidate. It is recommended that at least one reference is a current or former supervisor. When you’re ready to check references, move candidates forward in MyTrack to Reference Check. Candidates will receive an automatic message letting them know that you will be contacting references. Give candidates at least 24 hours to give their references a heads up and/or update contact information for their references in MyTrack prior to reaching out. You can contact references by phone or email. Frequently Asked Questions: Reference Checks Can I check references for multiple candidates? Yes. Please let candidates know that you’ll be checking references for multiple finalists, though. Can I contact references not supplied by the candidate? Contact your recruitment consultant to discuss this more. Do I have to check references for internal candidates? We recommend checking references for all finalists, even if they are internal. But what if the hiring authority is one of their references? Check their other references, or ask for additional contacts. If you’re checking references for multiple finalists, be consistent with the number of references you speak with. How many references do I need to talk to? Try to talk to at least two references, ideally three. What if I’ve called and haven’t heard back from a reference? Check in with your candidate to see if they have another reference or updated contact information for the person you haven’t been able to get in touch with. You can also email references to set up a mutually available time to talk. Click here for an editable guide and worksheet: Reference Guide and Worksheet Select final candidate Evaluate each component of the selection process to determine the most qualified candidate, taking care to include veterans and disabled veterans preference in determining overall qualifications for eligible veterans.  If two candidates are equally qualified, affirmative action may be considered.  Another factor to consider with two equally qualified finalists is whether they are current classified employees.  In this case, select the person with the greatest seniority. If it is impossible to make a selection at this point, you may consider scheduling an additional interview or conducting additional reference checks.  In some instances, it may be appropriate to re-recruit. The Talent Acquisition unit in HR is available to consult. Hiring Classified Staff MyTrack: Recruitment Module Careers @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Classified Staff Start Search Generate Candidates Evaluate Candidates Prepare an Offer Make an Offer Close the Search Direct Appointments Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Contact Talent Acquisition Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.