New Employee Orientation Program Resources | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home New Employee Orientation Program Resources NEO Icon.png New employees are encouraged to attend our New Employee Orientation Program sessions.  The sessions provide information about the university's mission, structure, and employee shared resonsibilities, as well as campus and employee engagement opportunities.  The resources highlighted in these session are listed below. Athletic Tickets The Athletics Department offers employees a reduced price on season tickets to athletic events. Employees receive the reduced price on the first two tickets purchased.  Season tickets may be paid for through a payroll deduction plan. To purchase your season tickets call the ticket service team at 541-346-8281. Employees also can sign up for more information or purchase tickets through the online Ticket Marketplace . Common Reading Common Reading at the University of Oregon creates community among first-year students and across the university. Each year, incoming students, as well as faculty and staff, are presented with an engaging book that will be the focus of a university-wide discussion. Enjoy the opportunity to meet authors, have lively discussions with peers, and experience the piece in and outside of the classroom. Craft Center The Craft Center offers a comprehensive arts program open to UO students, faculty and staff, as well as Eugene community members. The Center is both educational and recreational, and encourages all levels of interest, from beginning hobbyist to serious artist. Dining - University Housing The University Dining locations are open to the university community and accept Ducks Dine On, cash and credit cards. Learn about the many dining venues on campus and the Ducks Dine On plan by viewing University Housing's Dining webpage. Discounts LifeBalance Program LifeMart Program Duck Nest The Duck Nest promotes self-care and life-balance to the university's students, faculty and staff. Free workshops are available throughout the year including yoga, meditation, nutrition, and general wellness. The Duck Store The Duck Store offers employees discounts on certain book purchases and course materials, and offers special prices on technology products including computer hardware and software, iPads, and tablets. For information about available products and pricing, visit The Duck Store , contact a representative by phone at 541-346-4331, or send an email to Tech@uoduckstore.com . Employee Assistance Program Employee Assistance Program . Eligible employees and their dependents have access to no cost, confidential, counseling and consultative services with licensed professionals through the EAP. The services include short-term professional counseling and assessment, child-care and elder-care resource and referral, legal and financial consultations, and an interactive website offering wellness information tailored to employee needs and interests. Employee Benefits (medical, dental, vision and life insurance) UO Group Insurance is offered to all eligible employees and includes medical, dental, vision and life insurance.  Other optional insurance benefits are also available. Equity & Inclusion The Division of Equity and Inclusion hosts and partners with many others on campus to host events throughout the year. The Division of Equity and Inclusion also supports Strategies and Working Groups (also known as Employee Affinity Groups.) These groups are autonomous organizations of Native, Black, Latino, Asian, Desi and Pacific Islander faculty, staff, and students that are open also to people of all racial and ethnic backgrounds. There is also a Deconstructing Whiteness group. Strategies groups devote time and effort to advocate for inclusive excellence, justice, and better support for students on campus and beyond. Flexible Spending Accounts Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) allow you to save on income tax by planning and saving for IRS-qualified expenses. Through an FSA account, you can set aside money on a pre-tax basis to cover certain healthcare and child care expenses. Learning and Development As a UO employee you have access to the MyTrack learning module which offers a number of learning and professional development opportunities. As a University of Oregon faculty member, staff, or student you get university sponsored access to LinkedIn Learning — a combination of dynamic, online instructional content, videos and tutorials on the latest technology, software, business skills, creative talents, and personal hobbies. University of Oregon Libraries The University of Oregon Libraries is an essential partner in the University’s educational, research, and public service mission. There are seven library locations and UO employees can borrow books, movies, music, video games and more. Learn more about the UO Libraries by view their website. Living in Duck Country Eugene, Oregon takes pride in being a college town that supports the University of Oregon.  Duck fans across the city cheer on UO Athletics at campus venues and at watch parties around town. 29 Things You Learn While Living in Eugene . Museums Employees receive free admission to both the Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art and the Museum of Natural and Cultural History . Outdoor Program The Outdoor Program is nationally recognized as the premier common adventure program in the country and the birthplace of modern collegiate outdoor programs. The Outdoor Program Rental Barn, Bike Program, and trips are open exclusively to UO students and OP community members. Learn about becoming a community member on the Outdoor Program website. Physical Education and Recreation Department Membership Options Class Schedules Youth and Family Programs Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program The University of Oregon is a qualifying employer for public service loan forgiveness. Employees who have Federal Direct Loans and have made 120 payments on the Federal Direct Loans (after Oct. 1, 2007) may be eligible for the remaining loan balance to be forgiven. For more information, check out the Public Service Loan Forgiveness information on the Federal Student Aid website. Retirement Plans UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Ride the Bus for Free Employees have acccess to a free bus pass from Lane Transit District (LTD). LTD uses Umo to validate fare and riders will need to show a valid pass in the Umo App or use a Touchpass tap card. Instructions on obtaining code can be found on the UO's Transportation services website. Staff Tuition Benefit Staff tuition benefits are included in the employee benefits program to encourage and assist eligible employees with educational pursuits. Tickets to Campus Events The UO Ticket Office is a full-service outlet that provides ticket sales for a broad range of venues both on and off campus. As a sales outlet for TicketsWest, the Hult Center, the WOW Hall, Hi-Fi Music Hall, local promoters, and UO organizations, employees can make ticket purchases for thousands of concerts, plays, and events held on campus, in Eugene, and throughout the Pacific Northwest without leaving campus. Visit their website for a full listing of events and services. UO Passport and Acceptance Center The UO Ticket Office is an authorized US Government Passport Acceptance Center. We’re here to make your passport experience as convenient and easy as possible. Time Off at the UO Vacation -  Eligible employees accrue vacation on a monthly basis. Eligibility and accrual schedule are based on employee classification. Sick Leave - All full-time employees receive eight hours of sick leave for each full month of service. Employees are eligible to use accrued sick leave with pay immediately upon accrual. Employees working less than full-time accrue sick leave on a pro rata basis. There is no limit to the amount of sick leave employees can accumulate. Unused sick leave is not paid out at termination. Holidays -The University of Oregon observes many national holidays throughout the year. Eligibility for compensation may vary by employee classification. Personal Leave - All classified employees receive personal leave with pay after six months of employment. For eligibility requirements and accrual schedule refer to collective bargaining agreement (CBA) for your classification. Wellness Benefits The University of Oregon is committed to supporting employees as they strive to improve their overall health and wellness. A variety of wellness programs are available and intended to compliment the insurance protection provided in the University's employee benefit package. Work-Life Resources The University of Oregon recognizes the importance of well being and wellness and is committed to helping members of the university community balance their work, educational and personal responsibilities. A variety of work-life resources are available to help faculty and staff live happy, healthy, and fulfilled lives. Work-Life Resources Events and Recognition Programs Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Employee Engagement Guide HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.