New Employees: Get Started | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home New Employees: Get Started This resource page guides new employees through the onboarding process and provides you with quick access to frequently requested information. Human Resources provides a detailed new employee onboarding checklist to guide you through tasks requiring action before your first day, on your first day, and during your first month. View New Employee Checklist First Things First: Get Connected to UO technology, Get to Know your benefits, and Go To Orientations Get Connected to UO Technology UO employees use email, DuckWeb, and a variety of other technology resources. Login Information: 1. UO ID Number and Personal Access Code (PAC) to access DuckWeb* New employees will receive an email notification with instructions on how to access their UO ID and temporary PAC. *DuckWeb is a secure website that interfaces with the university's central administrative system. DuckWeb allows access to payroll data and personal information (such as earning statements, direct deposit infomation, and tax forms). Faculty use DuckWeb to obtain class lists and for grading. 2. DuckID and Password to access email, Canvas, and other university services PLEASE NOTE: Unless your hiring department reserves a Duck ID for you, the available choices for the Duck ID are auto-generated. If you have any concerns about the available options, please contact your hiring department BEFORE claiming your Duck ID. Once claimed, Duck IDs cannot be changed. Visit the Service Portal for instructions on How to Claim Your Duck ID . The Duck ID is the first part of your UO email address followed by uoregon.edu. Problems claiming your Duck ID? If your hire falls outside of the applicable waiting period for your classification , contact the Human Resources Service Center at 541-346-3159 for additional assistance. 3. DUO Two-Step Login to access Banner, and other university services To set-up and manage devices go to duckid.uoregon.edu . Click on Manage Duo Login and Devices to get started For assistance visit the Service Portal, Getting Started with Two-Step login (DUO) . For more information on technology access, see the IT Service Portal . Assistance with Technology Login For assistance with the UO ID number, contact the hiring department. For assistance with the PAC, contact Human Resources, 541-346-3159. For assistance with the Duck ID and password, call (541) 346-HELP (4357), or submit a help ticket through the UO Service Portal . Email Your Duck ID is your email username. UO email addresses follow this format: duckid@uoregon.edu . The UO offers web-based email access at uomail.uoregon.edu . Visit All About Email at UO for more information. ID Card New employees may obtain a UO ID card at the UO Card Office in Room 12 of the Erb Memorial Union (EMU).  Room 12 is on the lower level, adjacent to the Union Market.  Your hiring department can assist with the documentation required.  Please bring conventional photo ID (driver’s license or passport) and your UO ID number that begins with "95." For more information, including a link to upload your ID photo, visit the Card Office website or contact them at 541-346-3113. If your ID card will be used for building access, contact your hiring department for the required information for proximity access. Get to Know Your Benefits The University of Oregon provides a competitive benefits package to all eligible employees that includes options best suited to their needs and the needs of their family. The insurance benefits, wellness programs, retirement plan choices, and other services offered are a sizable amount of an employee’s overall compensation and important factors in encouraging a healthy work-life balance at the UO. Our New Employee Benefits Resource Center provides detailed information regarding the benefits listed below. If you are eligible for benefits (0.50FTE or more), you have 30 days from your date of hire to select and enroll in the UO benefit program. Coverage is effective the first of the month following your hire date and online enrollment or submission of enrollment forms to the UO Benefits Office. Insurance The University of Oregon offers, to all eligible employees, a Core Benefits Package which provides medical, dental, vision and life insurance coverage.  Benefits are extended through the Public Employee Benefits Board (PEBB) and are intended to offer employees comprehensive coverage with a variety of options to meet individual employee needs. Explore the UO core benefits package on the HR website: UO Group Insurance Retirement Savings University of Oregon (UO) employees have several retirement plan options. Two voluntary retirement savings plans and two pension plans offer a broad range of choices to work toward a comfortable retirement. Learn more about your retirement plan options on the HR website: Retirement Plan Options Time Off The university is committed to providing employees with time to rest, relax, recharge, and tend to personal responsibilities through university scheduled holidays, vacation time, sick time, and other types of leave.  For details, including eligibility and accrual schedules,  which are based on employee classification, visit the Employee Leaves webpage on the HR website. Other Benefits and Services Take a look at the Summary of Benefits and Summary of UO Services , and the Work-Life Resources webpage to discover other benefits and services available to you as faculty and staff at the University of Oregon. Go To New Employee Onboarding program sessions Human Resources conducts the following sessions as part of your onboarding process: NEO: Mission, Shared Responsbilities, and Engagement Opportunities New employees learn about their responsibilities, UO community standards, and the campus resources and engagement opportunities available to faculty and staff. New Faculty and Staff Community Orientation and Resource Fair This onboarding experience offers opportunities to connect with other new employees, learn about available university resources and support at our resource fair, and join subject experts for information sessions designed to support your success as part of the UO community. Currently offered in Fall and Spring Terms. NEO: Employee Benefits Orientation For benefit-eligible employees only. Employees explore university benefit options and the enrollment process. Eligible employees must select and enroll in benefit plans within 30 days of hire Employee Benefits Overview New employees learn about benefit eligibility, provide a review of plans, and offer retirement information. Go to NEO webpage for dates, details, and registration. Please coordinate with your supervisor to make sure the orientation date selected fits with your schedule and your department guidelines. Other Important Considerations Learning and Development The university extends its commitment to continuous learning to its faculty and staff.  There are many learning and professional development opportunities available for you to expand your knowledge and skill set and help you thrive in an organizational culture of innovation and change. Visit the Learning and Development section to explore classroom and eLearning opportunities available to UO employees. Note: Some sections of this website are not available until you have your DuckID. Keys Authorization for appropriate and essential keys comes from the hiring department.  See your hiring department for details on getting authorization and for the relevant key authorization forms.  When these are completed and signed off, take the forms to the UO ID Card Services Office located on the ground floor of the Erb Memorial Union (EMU) by the Ticket Office to get your keys.  A small deposit is required for each key. For more information regarding the issuance of keys, please visit the Key Orders webpage . Parking Parking permits may be purchased online at transportation.uoregon.edu .  Employees may login to the system using their DuckID and password.  For assistance, contact the Office of Transportation Services at 541-346-5444. Payroll Information The university’s Payroll department shares information important to employees on the Payroll Information for Employees webpage.  This page covers a range of topics including direct deposit, earnings statements, payroll tax information, and payroll contacts. It also provides quick links to a variety of external resources. Transportation Options The UO encourages everyone to consider alternatives to car transportation. This includes bus service, car pooling options, and excellent bicycle paths and services. For details, please see the Office of Transportation Services website at transportation.uoregon.edu . Employees have access to a free bus pass. Lane Transit District (LTD) uses Umo to validate fare and riders will need to show a valid pass in the Umo App or use Touchpass tap card. More information about Umo can be found on the university's Office of Transportation Services website above. Work-Life: Parenting and Family Resources The University of Oregon offers a wide variety of resources and programming for faculty and staff with children. Please visit the Work-Life Resources webpage to learn about UO’s Parenting & Family Resources, including lactation support, the employee assistance program available to eligible employees and their dependents, parental and medical leave options, and information regarding child care, schools, and summer camp opportunities. UO is committed to providing an environment that is free from unlawful discrimination and harassment and will make reasonable accommodations for known physical or mental disabilities of employees, including known limitations related to pregnancy, childbirth or a related medical condition, such as lactation, unless the accommodation would cause an undue hardship. For more information regarding workplace accommodations, please review the Workplace Accommodations Notice and the Accommodations webpage . Faculty Specific Considerations : Email and Canvas Access Tenure-Related Faculty:  Canvas and email, one term prior to start of appointment Career and pro tem faculty:  Canvas, one term prior to affiliation:  Email, two weeks prior to appointment Canvas is UO's enterprise learning management system. Canvas is an easy-to-use web-based tool for hosting syllabi, assignments, grades, discussion tools, web conferences, quizzes, exams, and more. Your UO e-mail username and password is required for access. Learning & Development Services MyTrack: Learning Module New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Staff Directory: Learning & Development Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.