LinkedIn Learning Frequently Asked Questions | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home LinkedIn Learning Frequently Asked Questions General Questions What is LinkedIn Learning? Is LinkedIn Learning replacing the employee Learning Management System – My Track? Is LinkedIn Learning replacing the employee eLearning service – Skillport? What topics/courses are available? What type of content is available on LinkedIn Learning? Where does the content on LinkedIn Learning come from and how is the quality verified? Did LinkedIn Learning used to be called Lynda.com? What LinkedIn Learning technical support options do learners have? Is there a mobile app? Can I download content for offline viewing? Access and Security Who can Access LinkedIn Learning? Do I have to have a LinkedIn profile to activate LinkedIn Learning? What should I do if I already have a LinkedIn Learning account? If I connect my Learning account to my LinkedIn profile, what will UO have access to? What data does the UO report on my learning activity? If I activate without a LinkedIn profile but later want to connect it, can I do so? If I activate with a LinkedIn profile but later want to disconnect it, can I do so? What about data and privacy? Who can see what I am viewing / completing? Can I control what learning information is displayed on my LinkedIn profile? Learning How do I use LinkedIn Learning as a user? What languages are available? How do I change the language of a course? How do I change my language on LinkedIn Learning? What certifications & continuing education units/professional development units are offered through LinkedIn Learning? Where can I see my learning history? Can I save courses or videos to watch later? Can I download/print course completion certificates? What is the difference between a learning path and a collection? What are weekly goals on LinkedIn Learning? How do I set weekly goals for Learning? How do I change or delete weekly goals for Learning? How can I see when new courses are added? General Questions What is LinkedIn Learning? LinkedIn Learning is an educational platform that helps you discover and develop business, technology-related, and creative skills through expert-led course videos. You will have access to personalized, “bite-sized” video-based learning 24/7 so you can develop relevant skills and grow professionally. There are over 16,000 courses and content is available in 7 languages. Is LinkedIn Learning replacing the employee Learning Management System – My Track? No. LinkedIn Learning will not replace My Track. These two systems will complement each other but service different purposes. Is LinkedIn Learning replacing the employee eLearning service – Skillport? Yes, LinkedIn Learning will be replacing the employee eLearning library Skillport. What topics/courses are available? LinkedIn Learning currently has over 16,000+ courses across a variety of topics; with 30-70 new courses added weekly. To learn more about the course topics, click here. What type of content is available on LinkedIn Learning? There are three libraries, covering a broad range of topics, including: Business: digital transformation, leadership & management, soft skills, project management training, HR training, customer service training, performance management training, online marketing training, professional development, career development, training & education, business software and tools, finance and accounting, sales, small business and entrepreneurship. Technology: IT infrastructure training, cloud computing, data science, web development, software development, security, database management, IT help desk, mobile development, network and system administration, and internet of things. Creative: online graphic design training, online AEC training, CAD, web design, user experience, 3D and animation, art and illustration, video, motion graphics and VFX, photography, audio and music. Where does the content on LinkedIn Learning come from and how is the quality verified? LinkedIn Learning produces all its content in-house in their production studios in California and Austria using experts (authors, business leaders, researchers, etc.), not actors. Therefore, the content creators are verified experts and LinkedIn only offers content designed with their high, in-house standards. Did LinkedIn Learning used to be called Lynda.com? Yes and no. LinkedIn bought Lynda.com in 2015 and has continued to use all the same great content and content creation methods. However, LinkedIn Learning is a new and improved platform, so you’ll notice new features such as automated, personalized content recommendations, Q&A on courses, notebook, and other new bells and whistles. LinkedIn Learning has also significantly increased the number and variety of courses offered with the new platform. What LinkedIn Learning technical support options do learners have? LinkedIn Learning provides several support options for learners. The LinkedIn Learning Help Desk supports learners in resolving account issues, course issues, or any other learner issues. You can reach out to these channels for support: Access the LinkedIn Learning Help Desk Is there a mobile app? Yes, and many people prefer to learn on-the-go. In the app/play store on your device, simply find the ‘LinkedIn Learning’ app for download. Once downloaded, you will login with your same desktop credentials, and your learning will automatically go with you wherever you go. Using the mobile option is a bit different and has the option to turn the courses to “audio-only” via a toggle within each course. Can I download content for offline viewing Yes. When using the device connected to the internet, simply navigate to a course you want to watch later offline and click the “download” button. This will download courses to your device that you can watch while offline, like when taking a flight or in a location where internet access is not available. Access and Security Who can Access LinkedIn Learning? LinkedIn Learning is currently accessible for faculty, staff and current students via single sign on. The following employee groups are included: Classified staff Emerit Faculty Graduate Employees Officers of Administration Retired Student employees Temporary employees Excluded: Courtesy appointments Associates How do I log back in to LinkedIn Learning after creating my account? Once you have successfully created your profile, you will be able to log into LinkedIn Learning in multiple ways: Via your SSO page , via LinkedIn.com/learning using your email and password, via Linkedin.com if you’ve connected to your LinkedIn profile, or via the LinkedIn Learning mobile app. Do I have to have a LinkedIn profile to activate LinkedIn Learning? No. You do not need to have a LinkedIn profile to activate your LinkedIn Learning account. If you have a profile, you have the option to choose whether or not to connect it to your Learning account. Here are a few added benefits for learners who do make that selection: Enhanced Q&A with course authors & other learners Personalized content and course recommendations to help you stay up-to-date with what other LinkedIn members (with similar job titles and positions) are also learning Ability to launch content directly from your LinkedIn profile Ability to keep your learning history if you leave the institution Ability to add course completions, certificates & newly learned skills to your profile Ability to join LinkedIn Study Groups to keep the learning going after completing a course What should I do if I already have a LinkedIn Learning account? If you have a private account with LinkedIn Learning, it doesn't impact your account with our organization. You may choose to keep your private account and transfer activity between the accounts or cancel your private account. If you have further questions about this, please see the help center within LinkedIn Learning. If I connect my Learning account to my LinkedIn profile, what will UO have access to? Even if you choose to connect your LinkedIn profile, LinkedIn won’t share your personal information (such as job search history, connection request, inmails, etc) with the organization providing you access to learning; this organization will only have access to your LinkedIn Learning course viewings. What data does the UO report on my learning activity? UO reports on aggregate user learning activity. This helps us target communications and build programs that meet user needs. If I activate without a LinkedIn profile but later want to connect it, can I do so? Of course. Simply go to the “me” button on the top right of your LinkedIn Learning account, then go to “settings” and click connect my profile. If I activate with a LinkedIn profile but later want to disconnect it, can I do so? Of course. Simply go to the “me” button on the top right of your LinkedIn Learning account, then go to “settings” and click disconnect my profile. What about data and privacy? Who can see what I am viewing / completing? The UO reports on aggregate user learning activity, such as the content that users are viewing and completing. These reports will only be available to assigned administrators at the UO. Can I control what learning information is displayed on my LinkedIn profile? Yes, your LinkedIn Learning course completions won't show on your LinkedIn profile unless you choose to add a completed course. You can choose to remove course completions from your LinkedIn profile at any time. Learning How do I use LinkedIn Learning as a user? There are many features and functionality available within LinkedIn Learning so the easiest way for a full preview of the offering is to watch the LinkedIn Learning course featured on the HR LinkedIn Learning webpage. What languages are available? Courses are available in English, German, Spanish, French, Japanese, Mandarin Chinese, and Brazilian Portuguese. Change the language in your LinkedIn Learning settings if you would like to browse the course library in a different language. How do I change the language of a course? You can browse different language libraries by changing your language settings. Navigate as follows: Me / Settings / Content Language. You can also change language in the footer of the LinkedIn Learning page. How do I change my language on LinkedIn Learning? To change the language, click on the globe icon in the top right corner of the LinkedIn Learning Homepage. Select your language from the drop-down menu. LinkedIn Learning offers content in Simplified Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, Portuguese, and Spanish. Some of the courses and features might not be available in all languages. What certifications & continuing education units/professional development units are offered through LinkedIn Learning? There are many certifications & continuing education units available to UO LinkedIn Learning users and more being regularly added; for a full listing visit here . Don't forget to check back a few times a year, as LinkedIn Learning is regularly adding new content and partnerships to expand this area of the offering. Where can I see my learning history? Your own learning history is available to you at any time. Simply log into your LinkedIn Learning account, and under the “me” button at the top right you can select “Learning History”. Can I save courses or videos to watch later? Yes, there is a ‘Saved’ tab under ‘My Learning’ that lists all courses or videos saved to view later. You can save a course or video by selecting the ‘Save’ button in the search next to it or on the top right of the course/video itself when you have it open. Can I download/print course completion certificates? Yes. In your learning history, navigate to any completed course and click the ‘more’ button to the right. Here you can ‘add to profile’ (if you’ve connected with a LinkedIn account) or ‘download certificate’ to save a digital file or to print. What is the difference between a learning path and a collection? Learning paths are compiled playlists of related video courses on a specific topic or career track. They include multiple courses by different expert instructors to teach a variety of skills and information associated with that subject or profession. They indicate a specific series of courses and videos taken in sequence. Collections are also a group of courses and videos related to a specific topic, but they do not have a particular order, and do not need to be watched in sequence. What are weekly goals on LinkedIn Learning? LinkedIn Learning allows you to set weekly learning goals. Setting these goals will help you prioritize your learning needs by blocking a specific amount of time in your schedule for watching the course videos and track your progress on learning. Every minute you spend watching content on LinkedIn Learning will count towards your weekly goal. You’ll be able to track your progress via the progress bar on your home page. How do I set weekly goals for Learning? You can select a Learning goal in two different ways: To set a weekly goal while activating: From the weekly goal page, select one of the following options: 15 mins, 30 mins, 60 mins, or 120 mins, then click ‘Set goal’. To set a weekly goal from the homepage, log in to your LinkedIn Learning account, click ‘Set goal’ from the top left of your Learning homepage, select one of the following options: 15 mins, 30 mins, 60 mins, or 120 mins, then click ‘Set goal’. First activating your account Accessing the LinkedIn Learning homepage. Once you’ve selected your weekly goal, you’ll be able to track your progress. You’ll also receive reminders to complete your goal. How do I change or delete weekly goals for Learning? You can change your learning goal whenever you want. To edit or remove/delete your learning goal: Log in to your LinkedIn Learning account, click ‘Edit goal’ from the Home page, you can: edit your goal or delete your goal. How can I see when new courses are added? There are a few ways to see the new courses that are added. First, you can subscribe to our learning blog here , and every Monday an article will be sent to you that lists the new course titles added that week. Second, your homepage content recommendations will show you the newest and most popular courses. Lastly, if you’re searching for a particular topic using the search bar, once you’ve done a search click on the “sort by” drop down at the top right and click “newest” and it will show you the newest courses on that topic first. LinkedIn Learning Services MyTrack: Learning Module New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Staff Directory: Learning & Development Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.