UO Kids on Campus Day | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home UO Kids on Campus Day Thank you for joining us at UO Kids on Campus Day, held April 25, 2024! 2024 Event Schedule UO Kids on Campus Day (formerly Take Our Children to Work Day) is designed to engage the UO community by providing an opportunity for employees to spend quality time with the kids in their lives and showcase their workplaces. For many years, the University of Oregon has participated in the national Take Our Daughters And Sons To Work® Day by hosting its own on-campus event. Collaborative partners from across the institution host experiences, opportunities, activities, and tours to highlight what it is like to be a part of the UO community. We are creating and holding space for UO families to meet and engage in a shared experience. We aspire to inspire and empower the next generation through this immersive experience and opportunities that: Encourage kids to stay curious about the world around them and to set ambitious goals for their future. Expose kids to the power of higher education and help them understand the value of their education. Provide hands-on learning opportunities that ignite curiosity, foster creativity, and allow kids to discover their unique interests and talents while having fun. Children in grades 4 through 8 (or about 9-13 years old) are eligible to attend and must be accompanied by an adult at all times. Registration is required, along with completion of a Parent Permission and Liability Release Form. Supervisor approval is required to participate and is based on operational needs of the department. Questions & Support Please contact UOFamilies@uoregon.edu with any questions, access needs, or accommodation requests for participating in this program. Timeline & Deadlines: Registration is closed April 25: Day of event May 2: Raffle entry deadline May 3: Raffle winners announced UOKOC_duck.png UO Kids on Campus Day FAQs Scheduled Activities (2024) Time Location Activity, Campus Partner, and Description 9:00 to 10:00 a.m. Ford Alumni Center, Giustina Ballroom Event Kick Off, University Human Resources Check in, connect with others, and learn about the many different activities and opportunities for the day. 10:30 a.m. to noon Lillis Hall, room 440 Step into Business, Lundquist, College of Business: Spots: 20 Ever wondered how your favorite sports shoes are designed and how they become so popular? Come find out at the Lundquist College of Business, where you'll get to come up with a design and marketing plan based on your own interests! First, you'll team up and brainstorm big ideas—what makes your shoe awesome and who would love to wear it? Then, you will either bring shoe sketches to life as a designer or think up exciting ways to tell everyone why your shoe is the best as a marketer. 10:30  to 11:30 a.m. Ford Alumni Center, Giustina Ballroom A LIL Treasure Hunt, Safety and Risk Services - Location Innovation Lab: Spots 50 Learn the secrets of the campus map and go on a treasure hunt with the Location Innovation Lab (LIL). 10:30  to 11:30 a.m. Student Recreation Center, Old Town Physical Education & Recreation Join the Duck Trails Youth Camp staff at the Student Recreation Center to hear about great jobs on campus and play some camp games as a family. Check in at the SRC Welcome Desk to sign a waiver then follow the signs to Old Town to find the fun! 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Carson Dining Hall Lunch, Carson Dining Hall, UO Dining Services At the heart of campus, Carson Dining provides buffet style lunch featuring hearth-oven pizza, salads, and a variety of entrées. Upon arrival, see a cashier at the entrance to the dining area and let them know you are with UO Kids on Campus Day. Enter the dining area and enjoy! 12:45 p.m. to 1:20 p.m. Frohnmayer Music Building, room 163 How to be a Music “ConDUCKtor”, School of Music and Dance: Spots 80 The University of Oregon Chamber Choir, under the direction of Sharon Paul, will demonstrate what a conductor does (and should not do!) when leading a choir. After learning a bit about conducting, a few members of the audience will be invited to lead the Chamber Choir in the opening bars of the Hallelujah Chorus! 1:00 p.m. AND 2:00 p.m. Student Recreation Center, lobby entrance off 15th Ave. See where the Ducks play and stay fit! Tour the Student Recreation Center, Physical Education & Recreation Tours of UO’s Physical Education & Recreation Center will be given on the hour at 1:00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. Drop-in Activities (2024) Time ​​​​​Location Activity, Campus Partner, and Description 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Drop in EMU, ground floor, O desk Origami duck and more at the O Desk! Stop by the EMU O-desk for an EMU coloring book and Origami duck making kit. 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Drop in EMU Self-Guided Tour- Erb Memorial Union The Erb Memorial Union (EMU) is the heart and hearth of the University of Oregon. We support our campus community with a state of the art facility, incredible student programs and outstanding services. Through our exceptional events, programs and services, the EMU helps students thrive and become well educated, socially responsible, and career ready while having an excellent experience at the University of Oregon. Stop by the EMU for a self-guided tour and explore all we have to offer! 10:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Museum of Natural and Cultural History, 15th & Agate Streets Museum of Natural and Cultural History Come visit the Museum of Natural and Cultural History for a chance to view our exhibits and check out some extra hands-on crafts and activities. 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art Visit the Jordan Schnitzer Museum of Art for free and pick up an art packet (while supplies last). Receive 20% off merchandise at the JSMA Museum Store, including the sale table! 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Drop in Allan Price Science Commons and Research Library- Visualization Lab B006 Gaming in the Library, UO Libraries – Capacity: 15 at one time Stop by the Allan Price Science Commons & Research Library to enjoy our console, computer, and tabletop gaming collections in our new Gaming Center. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Johnson Hall, VPFA Office, room 103D Johnson Hall Scavenger Hunt and Swag Bag Extravaganza - Capacity: 15 at one time Drop into Johnson Hall any time between 1pm and 3pm to challenge yourself with a scavenger hunt in Johnson Hall and pick up some fun UO swag (as supplies last)! 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Tykeson Hall, James Commons South Keep You and Your Brain Safe, The Center for Brain Injury Research and Training, CBIRT Stop by our table to play games of chance and learn how to keep you and your brain safe. Participate in a raffle to win a helmet. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Tykeson Hall, James Commons South Superhero Researcher, School of Journalism and Communication- PhD Candidate Research Study A UO student researcher wants to know what kind of fictional superheroes you would want to see in the world. Stop by and learn more about this superhero research project and how you may be able to participate. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Ducks House, Unthank Hall Spring Cookie Decorating, Dining Services Let your creative side shine in this spring cookie decorating class. Work with our Bakers and Pastry Chef to decorate sugar cookies! This is a hands-on activity and will send you home with a small goodies box. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Outdoor Program Barn, Corner of University and 18th Ave. Outdoor Program Barn Tour and Obstacle Course, Outdoor Program The UO Outdoor Program is your place on campus that can help you experience all the fun of the Oregon outdoors! Swing by the OP Rental Barn to hop around our inflatable raft obstacle course and see all the other fun equipment the OP has to offer! 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Outside Oregon Hall SAIL into Higher Education, Undergraduate Studies and Student Success and the SAIL Program Join UO college students and paint pottery, collect some stickers and learn about the many activities and programs college students get to do when they start at the UO. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Outside McArthur Court (main entrance off University Street) Earthquake Shake, Safety and Risk Services - Emergency Management Team Try the Earthquake Shake activity and test your strength. Review the Earthquake drill steps Drop, Cover, and Hold! 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Outside McArthur Court (main entrance off University Street) Meet the UO Police, Safety and Risk Services - UO Police Department Stop by and visit the UO Police Department. Learn about careers in law enforcement and check out the police car. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Outside McArthur Court (main entrance off University Street) Fire Extinguisher Training, Safety and Risk Services - Fire Life Safety Learn how to use a fire extinguisher and put out a fire! 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Outside McArthur Court (main entrance off University Street) Safety Gear-Up, Safety and Risk Services - Occupational Health & Safety Learn about safety gear and equipment and try it on for size! 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in EMU, ground floor, room 05 Sustainable Upcycling: Collage Art! Student Sustainability Center, EMU - Capacity: 10 at one time Drop into the Student Sustainability center and learn how to make your own collage. We'll be looking through recycled magazines and other print media and turning scraps into cool design pieces. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in EMU Craft Center, ground floor room 030 Crafting Fun! Craft Center, EMU – Capacity: 15 at one time Stop by for some crafting fun! Activities include creative coloring, playing with our huge Lego collection (not for taking home, sorry!), and making simple sculptures with foam, wire, glue, googly eyes, etc. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in Jaqua Academic Center Jaqua Academic Center Tour, University of Oregon Athletics The John E. Jaqua Center for Student Athletes at the University of Oregon provides the UO's student-athletes a place to gather as a community focused on study and learning. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in EMU E-Sports Lounge, ground floor E-Sports Gaming, EMU- Capacity: 20 at one time Stop by the EMU E-sports lounge for free games and learn what it is like to be a collegiate E-sports gamer. 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. Drop in EMU ground floor, room 45 Radio Station Drop-In Tours, EMU- Capacity: 20 at one time Drop in to KWVA Eugene, 88.1 FM, the University of Oregon's Campus Radio Station for a tour, listen to some music from the library, watch the DJs in action, ask questions about how radio works, or just come get a pen. Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Employee Engagement Guide HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.