FAQ: Background Check | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home FAQ: Background Check Frequently Asked Questions: Why are background checks required prior to hire at the University of Oregon? Can I start work before my background check has been completed? Which positions require a background check at the University of Oregon? Do all applicants receive a background check? Are there any exceptions to requiring a criminal background check in the categories outlined above? How will I know if a background check is required for the position I'm interested in? What types of background checks are required at the University of Oregon? Do criminal convictions preclude me from employment at the university? What about convictions related to my expression of free speech or prior to enactment of current laws? What do I need to do to authorize a background check for employment? If I decline the requested background check, will I be able to work at the university? How long does it take to process a background check? How will I know if I've completed my background check successfully? Who is responsible for reviewing the background check result and making a decision? How are decisions made when background checks return findings? If the contingent offer is withdrawn because of the criminal background check, how will I be notified? Will my background check remain confidential? I've work for the university and never completed a background check. Will I need to complete one now? Will I need to complete another background check for my secondary job with the UO? 1. Why are background checks required prior to hire at the University of Oregon? The university conducts job-related background checks prior to hire in order to ensure a safe and secure work environment in which university faculty, staff, students, resources, and assets are protected, while protecting the integrity and confidentiality of information gathered during the evaluation. 2. Can I start work before my background check has been completed? Background checks must be completed prior to the first day of employment or engagement with the university. Any exceptions to this practice must be approved by the Talent Acquisition unit in the Office of Human Resources. 3. Which positions require a background check at the University of Oregon? University policy and Collective Bargaining Agreements state that positions will be designated as subject to background check based on an analysis of the position’s access and responsibilities. Based on the presumption that the following categories meet one or more of the tests set forth in policy, the following positions are subject to a criminal background check prior to hire: Tenure-track and non-tenure-track faculty, including Pro-Tempore, Clinical (Professors of Practice), and Visiting Faculty; Instructors, Lecturers, and Librarians, and faculty serving in administrative roles Post-Doctoral Scholars and Fellows Research Associates/Assistants Graduate Employees Classified Staff Officers of Administration, including those in interim or fixed-term assignments Executives 4. Do all applicants receive a background check? In most cases, background checks will be conducted for the finalist and only following a contingent offer of employment. Informal offer letters issued prior to completion of the background check will notify the finalist that the offer is contingent upon successful completion of any and all required background checks. 5. Are there any exceptions to requiring a criminal background check in the categories outlined above? If the hiring authorities believe a particular position does not meet the tests set forth in policy, they can contact Human Resources to request further analysis of the background check requirement for that position. 6. How will I know if a background check is required for the position I’m interested in? Search committees for tenure-track faculty positions will inform candidates of the University’s background check requirements during the selection process. For all other positions, a statement notifying potential applicants of the requirement for appropriate job related background check(s) will be included in the individual job postings. A general statement about the university’s background check processes is provided on the C areers @ UO main page. This published statement serves as required notification to all candidates. 7. What types of background checks are required at the University of Oregon? A standard background check will include a Social Security Number verification, a misdemeanor and felony criminal history check, and National Sex Offender Registry check. Additional background checks may be required for specific positions based on job-related need, including but not limited to the following: Degree Verification: required for all positions where a degree was specified as a minimum requirement for hire Motor Vehicle Record: required for positions where it is anticipated that an individual will be regularly required to drive a vehicle on University business, whether University-owned or other vehicle. Note: this does not substitute for the University’s driver certification process, but the newly hired employee may use the record obtained to support the request for driver certification. Credit History Check: Conducted only for positions with extensive authority to commit financial resources of the university or with extensive fiduciary responsibility for financial resources of the university; or as required by law, and as appropriate for positions with the following responsibilities: Broad and extensive access to personally identifying information about students, faculty, staff, alumni, donors, or research subjects; Direct access to and handling of cash and cash equivalents (i.e., checks, credit card receipts, negotiable securities); Public safety and campus security Note that federal law prohibits discrimination as a result of personal bankruptcy. Employment Verifications: Search committees are required to complete professional reference checks prior to extending a contingent offer of employment. Employment verifications may also be completed as needed by the background check vendor. License Verification: Confirmation that the selected candidate or employee possesses all technical/professional licenses required for the position and as cited by the candidate in application materials or search processes, including verification of the disposition of such licenses State or federal law or regulations, professional associations, licensing entities or contracting partners may impose additional background screening check requirements upon certain individuals (for example, the Medicare Exclusion/FACIS check). In these cases, the affected individual and department should coordinate the need for such a check with the Talent Acquisition unit. 8. Do criminal convictions preclude me from employment at the university? No. The existence of a criminal conviction or other finding will not result in automatic disqualification from the applicant pool. Not all criminal convictions are considered to be job-related, and decisions about criminal convictions and employment are made on a case-by-case basis. Findings will be considered by the university to the extent they relate to the applicant’s suitability for employment in the position for which the applicant has applied, and may be considered based on the following factors: Nature and gravity of the offense(s), Time since conviction, completion of sentence or any other remediation, and Degree of relevance to the position for which the candidate is being considered/employee is performing. It is to be expected that there are university positions on which the public trust and reputational impact of the university rely, and evaluation of findings will of necessity include those factors. Candidates have the right to access credit and/or criminal background check(s) information reviewed by the university and a description of the evaluation of findings; a summary of these rights is included in the background check authorization and release. For further questions, we invite candidates to contact Human Resources Talent Acquisition unit by emailing talent@uoregon.edu . 9. What about convictions related to my expression of free speech (e.g. participation in protests) or activities that occurred prior to enactment of current laws (e.g. possession of controlled substances, which are now legal in limited jurisdictions)? Academic freedom and the expression of free speech are critically important to the life of the academy. Findings arising from the expression of academic freedom or First Amendment rights will be reviewed according to the importance of those values within the academic community. Other convictions will be reviewed based on the factors defined for assessing all findings (see question 8). 10. What do I need to do to authorize a background check for employment? Finalists for positions must authorize the university to conduct background checks. The finalist will receive email notification of the background check requirement and will be provided with authorization and disclosure forms. The finalist is asked to provide identifying information, including other names used, Social Security Number and birthdate, driver license number, all addresses for the prior 7 years, and conviction history. 11. If I decline the requested background check, will I be able to work at the university? Unfortunately, no. Candidates for employment who fail to participate fully or who provide inaccurate information in a background check will be eliminated from consideration for the position. Candidates may decline to authorize a background check; in such cases, no background check will be performed, but the candidate will not be considered further. 12. How long does it take to process a background check? Background checks are typically completed within three business days. Some jurisdictions, particularly on the East Coast, may require additional time. Candidates who have lived internationally may require an international check, depending on the duration and purpose of their travel (e.g. students who went on study abroad for a term but who never changed their permanent address may not be required to have an international check). International checks take additional time to process. 13. How will I know if I’ve completed my background check successfully? Hiring authorities and departmental HR contacts are notified by email when finalists have successfully completed the background check process.  You can contact the departmental HR contact for an update. 14. Who is responsible for reviewing the background check result and making a decision about the finalist’s employment with the university? Human Resources is charged with the initial evaluation of findings in order to ensure that decisions about findings are made consistently and are based on defensible, job-related analysis, and take into account the nature and context of the offense. 15. How are decisions made when a background check returns findings? If findings are present, the background report will be reviewed by Human Resources based on the criteria outlined in question 8.  Human Resources will notify the finalist of a finding (pre-adverse action notification), including providing access to the complete report and advising the finalist of their rights under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). Human Resources will also ask the finalist to confirm that the report pertains to them and invite the finalist to provide any additional information for consideration. Following this step, Human Resources will make an initial determination as to whether the finding is sufficiently job-related to seek next-level evaluation. If Human Resources has insufficient information about the position requirements to make this determination, they will seek additional information from the hiring unit. If findings are determined to be substantially  job-related, or if there is insufficient information to make such a determination, Human Resources will then make a recommendation regarding the findings to the Provost (for tenure-track or non-tenure-track instructional faculty), to the VPRI (for research non-tenure-track faculty) or the area Vice President (for staff), or the designees of individuals serving in these roles. The recommendation will include whether disqualification from that specific job is warranted, based on application of the criteria mentioned above. 16. If the contingent offer is withdrawn because of the criminal background check findings, how will I be notified? If a decision is made to withdraw the contingent offer of employment, Human Resources will notify the candidate that they are not eligible to fill the position based on the unsatisfactory results of a background check, and will provide the finalist with all required notifications pursuant to the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and/or other applicable law(s), including the right to review the report and how to contact agency(ies) that provided the background check results (adverse action notification). 17. Will my background check remain confidential throughout my employment with the university? Information gathered as a result of background screening is considered sensitive, and disclosure is restricted to those individuals who need the information in order to perform their job duties. Records are maintained by the university's Human Resources department in accordance with the university’s records retention schedule. 18. I’ve worked for the university for a long time and I never completed a background check. Will I need to complete one to keep my job? What if I apply for a new position or accept a promotion? For current employees, changes in employment initiated by the employee (e.g. application to a competitive recruitment or acceptance of a new position via direct appointment) will require a background check if the new assignment is designated as requiring a background check or required checks were not previously performed. Changes in employment that are initiated by the university, at the university’s discretion (e.g. change in job functions, transfer to new positions as an accommodation, participation in a layoff process, direct appointment via a re-employment pool) will not typically require a background check unless the new position triggers requirements under Collective Bargaining Agreements or state or federal law. The university also retains the right to conduct relevant background checks of current employees when it has reasonable grounds to do so. Some examples include: a workplace incident has occurred upon self-disclosure of criminal activity or upon the university being informed of such activity upon the addition of a secondary or supplemental assignment. Information discovered during a background check may serve as the basis for discipline against a current employee. The background screening check of a candidate who also is a current employee may impact the current employee's employment, particularly absent full self-disclosure. 19. I’m a current employee of the university and I recently completed a background check, will I need to complete another background check for my secondary job with the university? If a current employee has recently had a background check and is being considered for a secondary or supplemental assignment designated as requiring a background check, the findings of the check will be reviewed for relevance to the secondary or supplemental assignment. Background Check Information MyTrack: Recruitment Module Careers @ UO FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information FAQ: Background Check Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Contact Talent Acquisition Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.