MyTrack User Guide: Position Description Field References | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home MyTrack User Guide: Position Description Field References POSITION DESCRIPTION Reason: Select the reason that best applies for editing or creating the PD. image_1-a.png Recruitment information: Select if PD is intended for immediate recruitment (shortly following approvals) Select if PD is intended for a direct appointment. If PD is for recruitment and a proposed hiring range is known, enter that range The Approved Hiring Range (HR Only) field will be completed by HR for OA positions GENERAL POSITION INFORMATION Team: Populated based on user completing PD Position Title: This is the title that will display on the job posting and be the working title for the position image_2-a.png Position Classification: Populated once the job is created in Banner. If the position exists in Banner, the blue box displays key information about the position classification. Position Number: Populated once the job is created in Banner. If the position exists in Banner, the blue box displays key information about the position. image_2-b.png Org Structure: Select the appropriate VP Area, School/College/Admin Unit, Division/Admin Sub Unit, and Department or Program. The first two org levels are required, the second two are optional. fields4.png Timesheet Org: Enter the timesheet org for the position. You can search the library of timesheet orgs by clicking the magnifying glass icon. Searches can be conducted by either org code or the Cost Center (department) name. The org code can be viewed in numerical order or alphabetically by cost center name. Putting a partial code or name in the search fields will bring back multiple possible results. image_2-d.png fields6.png Type of Position: Select the type of position. The position type will be finalized by Human Resources when the Position Description is approved. position-type.png Appointment Type: Select the Appointment Type from the available choices. Note that some appointment types are specific to certain employee groups. fields8.png Duration: Select the Duration you expect for this position. fields9.png Rank: Select the Rank for this position. All non-faculty ranks, select No Rank. Searches can be conducted by either org code or the Cost Center (department) name. For faculty positions with multiple ranks, select the lowest rank possible for the position. You will confirm the rank for the successful candidate at the point of hire. fields10.png Annual Basis: Select the Annual Basis for the position. annual-basis.png Expected FTE: Enter the expected FTE for the position. Enter a number between 0.01 and 1.0. expected-fte.png Reports to (Position Number): Enter the position number (B#) of the position that this position reports to. You may use the magnifying icon to open the search window. HR recommends using Banner PWIVERI if you are having difficulty finding the B# of the supervisor. reports-to.png Primary Job Location: Enter the primary location for the job.  Click on the binoculars to search by Site No. or Site Name. The primary location choices come from Banner. The table is organized by city in Oregon, State in the U.S., British Columbia, and Outside US for all other international locations. primary-location.png POSITION BUDGET Position Funding: Select the funding source for this position. If the funding is not yet final, select requested or anticipated as appropriate. position-funding.png Labor Distribution: This section provides information about the initial labor distribution for the position. Please give the primary labor distribution for this position by listing index, account code, and percentage. For full FOAPAL elements or a split labor distribution, use the “Explanation” field to list additional items (such as another index, or a specific activity code). labor-distribution.png POSITION DETAILS Organizational Chart: Upload an org chart by clicking on the blue tab Documents at the top of the PD. From the drop down menu, select “Document from File.” Select Org Chart as the Document Category. Title your Org Chart (optional) Click “Upload file” to browse for the file and select the file you would like to upload. Click “save and close” to return to the Position Info tab to complete your Position Description. org-chart-1.png org-chart-2.png Position Summaries and Qualifications: Each of these sections should be filled out completely. These fields will also be used to build out the job advertisement. For guidance on how to write summaries and define qualifications, please see our PD Guidance and other resource materials. position-summaries.png SUPERVISION Supervisory Responsibilities: Select the level of supervisory responsibilities this position has. For full definitions, see our PD Guidelines. If multiple selections apply, pick the highest level regularly performed. supervisor.png Employee Count: Indicate in the fields the amount of FTE for each type of employees this position has supervisory responsibilities for. employee-count.png Banner Title: Populated once the job is created in Banner. Posting Title: Title that will display on the job postings and be the working title for the position. fields2.png Position Classification: Populated once the job is created in Banner. If the position exists in Banner, the blue box displays key information about the position classification. Position Number: Populated once the job is created in Banner. If the position exists in Banner, the blue box displays key information about the position. Suffix: Populated once the job is created in Banner. Identifies whether or not the holder has more than one position. fields3.png Department or Program: Select the appropriate VP Area, School/College/Admin Unit, Division/Admin Sub Unit, and Department or Program. fields4 (1).png Timesheet Org: Select the timesheet org this position is in. The timesheet org can be searched for by clicking on the binoculars. Searches can be conducted by either org code or the Cost Center (department) name. The org code can be viewed in numerical order or alphabetically by cost center name. Putting a partial code or name in the search fields will bring back multiple possible results. fields6.png fields5.png Type of Position: Select the type of position. The position type will be finalized by Human Resources when the Position Description is approved. fields7.png Appointment Type: Select the Appointment Type from the available choices. fields8.png Duration: Select the Duration you expect for this position. fields9 (1).png Rank: Select the Rank for this position. All non-faculty ranks, select No Rank. Searches can be conducted by either org code or the Cost Center (department) name. The org code can be viewed in numerical order or alphabetically by cost center name. Putting a partial code or name in the search fields will bring back multiple possible results. fields10.png Annual Basis: Select the Annual Basis for the position. fields11.png FTE: Enter the expected FTE for the position. Enter a number between 0.01 and 1.0. fields12.png Primary Job Location: Enter the primary location for the job.  Click on the binoculars to search by Site No. or Site Name. The primary location choices come from Banner. The table is organized by city in Oregon, State in the U.S., British Columbia, and Outside US for all other international locations. fields13.png POSITION BUDGET Budgeted Salary: What is currently budgeted salary for this position? Enter the maximum amount only, not including OPE. position_description_update3.png Position Funding: Select the funding source for this position. If the funding is not yet final, select requested or anticipated as appropriate. fields15.png Labor Distribution: This section provides information about the initial labor distribution for the position. An account code, and percentage are required.  Use fields as necessary. If the position has more than 1 funding source, use the large text field titled Explanation (if needed) to list additional information. fields16.png POSITION DETAILS Anticipated Recruitment Start Date: Enter the date you would like to open the position for recruitment. If no recruitment is being done on this position, leave this field blank. fields17.png Position Summary & Essential Duties: Each of these sections should be filled in with the appropriate information that is required to perform the essential duties of the position. These fields will also be used to build out the job advertisement. fields18.png Reports to: Enter the position number or title of the position that this position reports to. This field cannot be searched by person. fields19.png Budgetary Responsibilities: Enter the level at which this position will have responsibilities over a budget. Budgets less than a unit-level budget are entered as “none". fields20.png EMPLOYEES SUPERVISED & JOB DUTIES Employees Supervised: Indicate in the fields the amount of FTE for each type of employees this position will supervise. Do not make a selection if this position has no supervision responsibilities for that employee type. fields21.png Job Duties: To enter a job duty, click “new.” Enter the percentage of time, duties/responsibilities, and then select whether the duty is essential or incidental. Click add to save the entered information under Job Duties. fields22.png ORGANIZATIONAL CHART Organizational Chart: Upload an org chart by clicking on the blue tab Documents at the top of the Position Description page. Select from the drop down options "Document from a file." Select Org Chart as the Document Category. Title your Org Chart (optional). Click “Upload file” and select the file you would like to upload. Click “save and close” to return to the Position Info tab to complete your Position Description. fields24.png fields25.png fields26.png WORKING CONDITIONS Typical Work Functions Environment and Hazards: Check all the necessary work functions required by this position. Select “none” if there are none. Check all the Environmental and Hazards required by this position. Select “Normal Office Environment” if there are none. position_description_update1.png Lifiting Demands: Enter the lifting demands for this position. Minimum lifting demands are 10 pounds. fields28.png Additional Physical Demands or Work Conditions: Enter any additional physical demands or work conditions not covered by the selections above. fields29.png Frequency of Travel: Enter the percentage of time this position may be required to travel. Minimum travel frequency is “up to 10%.” fields30.png Work Schedule (if not typical): Enter the work schedule if not typical. Typical schedule is defined as 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. A flexible work  agreement may be required and can be uploaded to the system at the point of offer. fields31.png HUMAN RESOURCES Position coding, Salary, Bargaining Unit, & FLSA Status: These fields are populated by Human Resources as part of hte PD review. The salary range displays the approved salary range or comp band for the position. The range/band is visible in the blue box Background Checks: These fields are populated by Classification & Compensation as part of the PD review. All positions require a criminal background check. Additional required checks will be selected as part of the position review. position_description_update2.png USERS & APPROVALS User Fields: Enter your unit’s HR Administrator, the Hiring Manager for the position, and the Unit Director/Head in these fields (see description of roles). The Unit Director/Head field is located below the approval process section. The Hiring Manager field will auto-fill to the person who began creating the Position Description. You can either type the name of the appropriate individual in the box, or click on the binoculars to search for the appropriate individual. This information will stay with the job and the individuals selected will receive communication about this Position Description. fields34.png Approval Process: Select the appropriate approval process. Enter the appropriate HR Administrator Approver and Unit Director/Head for the approval process.  This information is used to route the job for approval(s). fields36.png fields37.png Saving the Position Description: Save a draft can be used when you need to save the PD you are working on without starting the approval process. Submit will save and begin the approval process on your position description. Submit and exit will save and begin the approval process and exit your screen back to the home screen. Cancel will exit the position description without saving. fields38.png Notes Tab: You can add notes about the position description using the notes tab. Select “note” and add your note. Notes can be emailed directly to users. You can attach files to your notes. Notes remain with the position description and are visible to anyone who can access the position description. fields39.png Position Descriptions MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack User Guides & Tools Position Descriptions Glossary of Terms MyTrack PD Template MyTrack User Guide: View PD MyTrack: Position Description Table PD Module Field References PD Module Guide Position Description Approval Processes Position Description Checklist form Position Description Guidelines Position Description: New Field Definitions Print PD and Export to Word Job Requisitions Approvals Search Committee Applications & Applicants Offers Onboarding MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Contact Talent Acquisition Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.