Printing Trade Coordinator #2476 | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Printing Trade Coordinator #2476 GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF CLASS The PRINTING TRADES COORDINATOR coordinates and oversees journey‑level bindery workers, bindery assistants, press operators, lithographic platemaker, photocomposition specialists, or manual, semi‑skilled workers in the production of printed materials.  Work is performed indoors in a printing production environment. DISTINGUISHING FEATURES This is a single classification and not currently part of a series of classes. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 1. Work Coordination. Typical tasks:  coordinates work with other units to ensure a flexible and even use of personnel through the various production areas; determines overtime requirements to meet delivery deadlines, and ensures an even distribution of overtime; acts as liaison between work unit and Customer Service section of plant to ensure cost effective and timely production of printing orders as well as problem resolution; adjusts work assignments and schedules to maintain adequate staffing levels that respond to fluctuating workloads. 2. Administrative Duties. Typical tasks:  assists administrative superior in tracking, monitoring, and projecting unit's budget needs; assists superior in developing policy, procedures, and plans for matters such as scheduling and extent of routine equipment preventative maintenance; monitors and accounts for unit's inventory of equipment, tools, and supplies; conducts annual physical inventory; requisitions materials and supplies or purchases on own up to authorized spending limit; monitors equipment maintenance requirements; keeps log on equipment status and maintenance schedules; determines needs for outside contractor and makes recommendation to superior; assists superior in employee selection process; evaluates employee performance and recommends appropriate performance appraisal to supervisor; assesses training needs of staff and assists superior in providing appropriate instruction; assists superior in providing initial orientation to new employees; conducts monthly safety meetings within the work unit and takes appropriate actions on issues raised by personnel. 3. Printing Production Work. Typical tasks:  performs semi‑skilled or skilled journey‑level work in same trade as is being coordinated (e.g., photocomposition ‑ computer encoding, book building, paste‑up, proofreading; plateroom ‑ stripping, camera work, plate burning; pressroom ‑ offset printing press operation; bindery ‑ folding, cutting, collating, saddle binding, perfect binding, trimming). 4. Miscellaneous. Typical tasks:  troubleshoots and makes minor repairs to equipment; contact outside repair person for major repairs; disposes of worn and obsolete equipment according to state and agency guidelines; acts as resource for information to agency staff and users in matters relating to unit's jurisdiction or expertise. RELATIONSHIPS WITH OTHERS Employees in this class have daily in‑person contact with other division staff to coordinate schedules and minimize disruption of agency services.  They have occasional in‑person contact with division customers involved in various stages of printing projects to coordinate and evaluate project progress.  They have in‑person contact with vendors and suppliers when purchasing equipment and materials, and with repair people when requesting repairs to equipments. SUPERVISION RECEIVED Employees in this class receive general supervision from the Plant Superintendent who reviews work through daily informal meetings and by reading daily and monthly production reports analyzing production levels, on‑time delivery, and deadhead ratios.  Work is reviewed for conformance to division and agency policy, procedures and guidelines, and adherence to unit's budget.  Employees in this class exercise independence in action and judgment to complete assigned tasks. GENERAL INFORMATION Positions are found in the State printing plant in Salem and may be found at Higher Education printing facilities in Corvallis and Eugene.  They require the willingness to:  work within a manufacturing environment; work in an environment containing chemicals, paper dust, odor, and high levels of equipment noise; work overtime on relatively short notice.  They require the willingness and ability to walk, stand, and work while bending, stooping, and lifting for extended periods, and the willingness to lift and carry heavy boxes, cartons, and lifts of paper and/or printing supplies. KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES (KSA) Extensive knowledge of setup, operation, maintenance, and repair of equipment and machines in the unit. Extensive knowledge of materials and supplies used in trades unit (paper, inks, additives, etc.). Extensive knowledge of workflow and procedures in assigned trades unit. Extensive knowledge of job planning, scheduling, and coordinating in trades unit. General knowledge of functions, workflow, and production requirements of other trades units. General knowledge of coordination required between print trades units. General knowledge of evaluation of equipment, materials, and supplies used. General knowledge of ordering and purchasing procedures for materials and supplies. General knowledge of affirmative action and applicable safety procedures. General knowledge of training new employees and apprentices in trades unit. General knowledge of assigning, coordinating, and prioritizing trades unit jobs. General knowledge of production limits of assigned trades unit. Skill in performing journey level work in trades unit coordinated. Skill in overseeing and coordinating trades unit operations. Skill in tracking production, equipment maintenance, and supplies. Skill in orienting and training new employees and apprentices in trades coordination. Skill in evaluating production requirements, including overtime needs. Skill in coordinating with other production units and clients. Skill in evaluating machinery, equipment maintenance, and repair needs. Skill in evaluating cost effectiveness and quality of equipment, materials, and supplies. Skill in adjusting workflow to meet unexpected demands. Skill in coordinating and cooperating with customer service section and clients. Skill in evaluating and providing employee training needs. Skill in the operation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of equipment used. Ability to assign, oversee, and review production tasks. Ability to assist management in review and selection of new employees. Ability to assist management in evaluation of employees' work. Ability to coordinate and lead assigned trades staff. Ability to effectively plan and schedule preventive maintenance and repairs. Ability to keep operations within budget limits. Ability to learn and apply division and agency policies, procedures, and guidelines. NOTE :         The KNOWLEDGE and SKILLS are required for initial consideration.  ABILITIES may be required for initial consideration, at any time during the selection process, or during a trial service period as a final stage of the selection process.  Some duties performed by positions in this class may require different KSA's.  No attempt is made to describe every KSA required for all positions in this class.  Additional KSA requirements will be explained on the recruiting announcement. Adopted 3/90 Revised Examples of work are typical of duties assigned to this class.  No attempt is made to describe every duty performed by all positions in this class. Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.