Employee Demographic Information | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Employee Demographic Information Data Collection and Use DuckWeb, the University of Oregon’s on-line information system, provides an opportunity for employees to voluntarily provide demographic information, which includes veterans status, disability, ethnicity and race, gender identity and sexual orientation. Why does the UO collect this information? The university collects demographic information from employees on a voluntary basis in compliance with federal and state laws and requirements mandated by the State of Oregon Higher Education Coordinating Commission. Additionally, these are key characteristics that help inform the university’s understanding of its community in support of the UO’s commitment to improve equity, inclusion, and diversity. We celebrate the diversity of our university community, and we are committed to enabling every member of our community to flourish and contribute. How can I review, update, or change my record? Your information is available for review in DuckWeb. The following instructions help you navigate DuckWeb to access your information: Veterans Status, Disability, and Ethnicity and Race Log in to DuckWeb , then: From the personal information tab, select “personal information application” from the menu. Scroll down the page to “additional details” section. Make edits and updates as needed using the pencil icon. Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation Log in to DuckWeb , then: From the employee information tab, select the gender identity/sexual orientation menu item. Select your answer from the available option in the dropdown list. Refer to the glossary below for definitions and descriptions. The categories listed are designated by the State of Oregon Higher Education Coordinating Commission. Answer not listed: Select “Identity not listed,” then specify in the field provided. Prefer not to respond: Select “Prefer not to answer.” Important Note: DuckWeb is undergoing changes as part of the university’s Banner upgrade. Once you navigate to your information from the employee information or personal information tabs, you can toggle between the two categories of information using the four square menu icon in the left corner. This main menu provides you access to your employee and personal information and their sub menu items. Please email Human Resources at hrinfo@uoregon.edu with questions, comments or concerns. Who has access to my information? Unit level data (your name associated with your responses) will be available to limited staff in offices that are responsible for data collection for the institution -- primarily the Office of Human Resources, Payroll Office, and Institutional Research. When data is provided through a paper process, HR and payroll representatives will have access to the data through the collection process. When data is provided through a paper process, HR and payroll representatives will have access to the data through the collection process. Your individual responses will not be accessible by general university departments. Aggregate information (percentages and category totals) will be available to administrative departments at the institution, and reported to the state or federal agencies to meet compliance requirements. How does the UO use this information? At this time, the information will only be used for aggregate reporting within the university and once requested, to the state. No individual information is to be shared with other offices at this time, until further discussion has taken place. If the policy on information sharing changes, you will be contacted with the updated sharing policy and the opportunity to change or remove your responses. Again, these questions are optional, and your responses completely voluntary. Who do I contact for more information? Please email Human Resources at hrinfo@uoregon.edu with questions or for further assistance. Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation Information We celebrate the diversity of our university community, and we are committed to enabling every member of our community to flourish and contribute. Collecting gender identity and sexual orientation information is required by Oregon Senate Bill 473. The university is collecting the following information on a voluntary basis in order to comply with state law and requirements mandated by the State of Oregon Higher Education Coordinating Commission (HECC): Legal sex designation *: The UO is required to collect this data in order to comply with federal reporting including IPEDS reporting, student employment, international student status and the granting of federal financial aid. If you are an employee or federal aid recipient your designation must match your sex designation with the Social Security office. If you are an international student your designation must match the sex designation on your passport. Gender *: The UO recognizes that gender is not limited to, nor always congruent with, the categories available in legal sex designation. Sexual orientation *: Along with other biographical information such as race, collecting sexual orientation allows the UO and the state of Oregon to analyze important information related to employee success and retention rates of communities of employees. This allows us to advocate for resources and provide appropriate services at the UO. *The categories listed for all three questions were designated by HECC. Information shared on the new employee information form will not be used in employment decisions. Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation Glossary of Terms Agender 1 - not identifying with any gender, the feeling of having no gender Androgyne 3 - A person whose biological sex is not readily apparent. 2. A person who is intermediate between the two traditional genders. 3. A person who rejects gender roles entirely. Bisexual 4 - An umbrella term for people who experience sexual and/or emotional attraction to more than one gender (pansexual, fluid, omnisexual, queer, etc). Gay 3 - The adjective used to describe people whose enduring physical, romantic and/or emotional attractions are to people of the same sex. Gender queer or Gender fluid 4 - An identity commonly used by people who do not identify or express their gender within the gender binary. Gender/gender identity 4 - One’s internal sense of being male, female, neither of these, both, or other gender(s). IPEDS – Integrated Post-Secondary Education Data System used by the National Center for Education Statistics to collect and analyze data related to education in the U.S. Legal Sex Designation - the sex that is indicated on government issued ID, such as a passport, driver’s license or social security registration. Lesbian 5 - A woman whose enduring physical, romantic and/or emotional attraction is to other women. LGBTQQIAPP+ 4 - A collection of identities short for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, aromatic, pansexual, polysexual (sometimes abbreviated to LGBT or LGBTQ+). Pansexual 4 - Capable of being attracted to many/any gender(s). Queer 4 - A term for people of marginalized gender identities and sexual orientations who are not cisgender and/or heterosexual. This term has a complicated history as a reclaimed slur. Same-gender loving 4 - A term sometimes used by members of the African-American/Black community to express an alternative sexual orientation without relying on terms and symbols of European descent. Sex 5 - refers to a person’s biological status and is typically categorized as male, female, or intersex. Sexual orientation 4 - A person’s physical, romantic, emotional, aesthetic, and/or other form of attraction to others. Straight/Heterosexual 5 - An adjective used to describe people whose enduring physical, romantic and/or emotional attraction is to people of the opposite sex. Transgender 4 - An umbrella term for people whose gender identity differs from the sex they were assigned at birth. The term transgender is not indicative of gender expression, sexual orientation, hormonal makeup, physical anatomy, or how one is perceived in daily life. Trans man 4 - Trans man generally describes someone assigned female at birth who identifies as a man. Trans woman 4 - Trans woman generally describes someone assigned male at birth who identifies as a woman. 1 Genderqueer and Non-Binary Identities &Terminology. Genderqueer Identities. http://genderqueerid.com/gq-terms 2 LGBTQ+ Definitions. Trans Students Educational Resources. http://www.transstudent.org/definitions 3 GLAAD Media Reference Guide - Lesbian / Gay / Bisexual Glossary Of Terms. https://www.glaad.org/reference/lgbtq 4 LGBTQI Terminology. LGBT Resource Center at UC Riverside 2003-2004. https://www.mvc.edu/files/Allies_Terminology.pdf 5 Definition of Terms: Sex, Gender, Gender Identity, Sexual Orientation. American Psychological Association. https://www.apa.org/pi/lgbt/resources/sexuality-definitions.pdf Records & Data Management University Appointments Personnel Actions and Instructions References Faculty Specific Topics Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.