Supervisor Record Maintenance | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Supervisor Record Maintenance Accurate supervisor records are important for a variety of purposes, including maintaining a supervisor distribution list for communication purposes, navigating the MyTrack position description library, and creating organizational charts in the MyTrack learning module. We know that sometimes supervisory responsibilities change, and updates to records must be made to keep supervisor records accurate across systems. This documentation will help you understand where supervisors are listed in HR systems and records and how to update them as needed. Supervisor information can be found in the following locations in MyTrack: Position Description User Record Maintaining supervisor records in Banner is a three-part process. Guidance for each process is provided below: Request Access to the Appropriate Form Update supervisor record Audit supervisor records Position Description Supervisor information can be found in two locations on the position description (PD). Within the ‘General Position Information Section' in the blue box under the B#. The supervisor listed in the blue box under the B# is a direct feed from Banner. This will show the supervisor that is tied to that B# in Banner. positiondescriptions_1.png In the 'Reports to' field. The supervisor listed in the “Reports to” field is what was entered on the PD when it was created or the last time it was edited. The “Reports to” field does not integrate with Banner. If the supervisor is accurate in the blue box, you do not need to worry about updating the “Reports to” field unless you are editing the PD to prepare it for a recruitment or pay action. reportsto.png User Record The details of a MyTrack user record are created with information from Banner. Supervisor information associated with a user record appears in MyTrack in the supervisor column in the PD library. userrecord_1.png A user's supervisor is also listed in the ‘reporting to’ section of their profile. profile_0.png For someone who supervises it will appear in the organizational chart under ‘MyTeam’ and under 'Team Development'. To change the supervisor associated with a user record an update to Banner is required. orgchart.jpg Request Access to the Appropriate Form If you do not already have access to the NOAEPAF form in Banner, you will need to request access from Payroll. The request process requires dean/director approval. If you do not need ongoing access to update supervisors on a regular basis, you may update a supervisor by submitting a Payroll Request Form (PRF) instead. Instructions for a PRF update can be found on the HR Document Submission Forms page. Go to the FIS/HRIS/AR User Profile Form: FIS/HRIS/AR User Profile Form . Select “Add FIS/HR/AR job functions” and complete the required fields at the top of the form (with the red asterisks). Scroll down 2/3 of the page and select “Electronic Approvals” under HRIS Job Functions. In the “Remarks” field, please type Access to Supervisor Maintenance EPAF. Click the “Save” button at the bottom of the form. Once you have saved the form, a window will come up and ask you to add your Dean/Director to the “Edit” field. Add the required information in the Signature Row page and then click the “Save” button. Scroll to the bottom of the page and click “Send Document” – it will then be sent to the designated email. Electronically sign the document via emailed instructions. Close the window or log out of the site. Update Supervisor Record Please note: If you are using an interim or temporary supervisor position number you will need to submit a new Electronic Payroll Action Form (EPAF) with the regular primary position number of the supervisor when it is available. It is recommended to use the primary supervisor position when appropriate. Login to Banner. Take note of employee and supervisor ID numbers (95#s), position numbers and suffixes (00). This data is required for form completion in subsequent steps. Navigate to Banner Form NOAEPAF . Complete the form by entering data into the following fields: Input employee ID number Skip Transaction Field or delete previous transaction number . Enter the effective date of supervisor change in the Query Date (date must be the 1st of the following month after last paid date- for example if submitting the supervisor update on 2/2, enter 3/1 as the Query Date). Input SUPER from drop down menu in the Approval Category and Type. Input or select employee Position number and Suffix (use the drop down menu for a “List of Employee’s Jobs (NBIJLST)”. Select GO on the top right corner of the screen to move to the Transaction tab. Complete the Supervisor fields in the Transaction tab. Enter current data in the New Value column for the following fields: Supervisor ID Number Supervisor Position Supervisor Suffix Save the form. Save the record by either clicking the "SAVE" button in the bottom right of the screen or using the F10 key. Submit the form. Click on the Tools icon and scroll down to the Options section where you then click “Submit Transaction”. submittransaction_3.jpg Confirm that the transaction went through. There are two ways to do this. Look up your submitted EPAFs individually, by person, on the EPAF submission form (NOAEPAF). Enter the Employee ID# and click on the "..." after the 'Transaction' field. dotdotdot_1.png 2. Or you can go to the Summary (NOAAPSM) form in Banner. pending.png Decifering Your Transaction Status Waiting – means the transaction was saved but not submitted. Follow the instructions above to save and submit the form. Approved – means it was successfully submitted but has not yet been applied. Check back the next day to see if transaction has been completed before reaching out for assistance. Completed – means it has been applied and should be reflected in the employee’s job record in Banner. approved.png This personnel action will be applied to Banner daily, meaning the EPAF will update NBAJOBS within 24 hours. MyTrack user records will update overnight pending the automatic update from NBAJOBS to NBAPOSN. Please note: The entire record update process from Banner to MyTrack can take up to 2 days to complete. Audit Supervisor Records Employee records can be reviewed using the payroll roster to identify any supervisor records that need to be updated. Supervisor information is included on two roster reports. 1. The payroll roster in Banner PWIPAYR The rosters are run from Banner in PWIPAYR. Supervisor information is only available in the spreadsheet files. If you have any problems with this report please contact the Payroll Office . 2. The Employee Roster report in COGNOS. Access to Cognos reporting can be requested through the Service Portal . Contact HR Operations if you have any questions about the report. Records & Data Management University Appointments Personnel Actions and Instructions References Faculty Specific Topics Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.