Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Many university functions and processes rely on employee records in Banner with an expectation that they are accurate and up-to-date. It is critically important that changes to employee and job information are made in a timely manner and that employee rosters are regularly audited to capture and correct inaccurate data. Timely Record Maintenance As a matter of practice, Banner should be updated as soon as possible anytime information for a recorded data field changes. Changes that require immediate action The following data fields in Banner are top priority because of their ongoing use in reporting and in other processes. They should be updated right away when a change occurs: Field Instruction Job location – establishes where an employee does their work for 51% of their time or more. This data field drives taxation, insurance options, workers compensation rates, available leave options, minimum wage, and FLSA regulations. If you have hybrid employees who work more from home than on campus, for these reasons, it is important to use the employee's home city as the job location rather than their campus location. Refer to the Payroll website . Supervisor ID and Position – identifies supervisor positions and the positions that report to it. This record impacts the accuracy of reports generated out of Banner, MyTrack permissions and learning access, supervisor email listserv, and Duckweb and other automatic organization chart access. Refer to the Supervisor Record Maintenance instructions on the HR website . Inactive employees – differentiates those with active jobs and those who are no longer actively working. Employees,i ncluding student employees, temporary employees, courtesy appointments, and campus associate, remaining active in Banner when they are no longer actively working or employed is a security risk. It also overstates employee counts and could result in financial or other costs. For all employees except students, submit an Employee Separation Request Form . For student employees, refer to the information and instructions provided by Payroll . Audit Process The Employee Roster Audit and Update Report provides the opportunity to verify records and identify necessary corrections. It should be run at least quarterly but can be run at any time. This process can also be used to make mass updates when there is a change in leadership or a reorganization. The report (Excel Spreadsheet) is to be used to request updates to work location and supervisor records, which will be processed by payroll. To separate employees, submit the required forms. Note: There is no review or approval process completed by University Human Resources or the Payroll Office when these changes are submitted by unit partners. It is the unit partner’s responsibility to ensure the changes are complete and accurate. Instructions In Cognos, run and download the Employee Roster Audit and Update Report under Reports in Cognos . (Need access to Cognos? )  Please note that the report may take around 5 minutes to run: Go to HR Reports. Select Employee Roster Audit and Update Report. Select Org level(s) from the prompts and select “Finish” to run the report. The report will automatically run and download as Excel. If you want to view in another format, use the “Run As” Cognos feature. Review your report to verify accuracy Inactive Employees Use the Last Pay Date and Job Status fields (light blue columns) to determine if the employee should remain active on your roster. This includes reviewing and taking action on temporary, courtesy, campus associate, and student appointments. When the employee is no longer active in the position, or if they are not returning to that position within 3 months, follow the separation process to update the employee’s record. For all employees except students, submit an Employee Separation Request Form For student employees, refer to the information and instructions provided by Payroll Supervisor Records Review the supervisor fields (light green columns) to make sure the correct supervisor is listed. Review potential issues as noted in the “Supervisor Notes” column. Notes are included to indicate employees without a supervisor listed, and data mismatches where the listed supervisor is no longer in the supervisor position (e.g., supervisor changed jobs or separated). In addition to flagged errors, review the full list to identify any other records that need to be corrected. Provide correct supervisor information in the NEW supervisor fields (gold columns) to record changes. Work Location Records Review the work location fields (light green columns) to make sure the correct work location is listed. You may need to reach out to the employee directly to obtain or confirm this information if they work remotely. Review potential issues as noted in the “Work Location Notes” column, which flags the following issues: Mismatch between work location and mailing address city or state – update the work location if it is incorrect. Out of state work location, city location unknown – provide the work location city. Work location outside the US, country unknown or mismatch – provide the work location country. In addition to flagged errors, review the full list to identify any other records that need to be corrected. Provide correct location in the NEW work location fields (gold columns X-Y) to record changes. If this is a temporary location change (3 months or less), do not use the spreadsheet to update the location. Instead, please contact payroll at payroll@uoregon.edu . Note: Updates to work location will be effective in the month they are submitted, even if the location change was in the past. Do not list future location changes on the spreadsheet; future changes should submitted in the month they are effective. If there are changes , submit the spreadsheet with record corrections for supervisor or work location information to Payroll through UO Forms . Please do not delete any columns prior to returning the spreadsheet. You are encouraged to remove rows that do not have changes. Include the Department/Unit/College/VP Area Name in the File Name or type it in the Description field when you upload the file to the form. Click Save and Assign the sheet to the “HR Admin or Dean or VP Admin”, following your Dean or VP procedures to determine if anyone needs to approve the sheet before you submit it to payroll. If no approval needed, assign to yourself. Submit the form, and after the one approval the update sheet will go directly to payroll. If there are no changes on your spreadsheet, no further action is needed – you do not need to submit the spreadsheet to Payroll. Questions and Support For further assistance and support: Contact HR Operations at hrops@uoregon.edu about Cognos and generating and reviewing your report. Contact Payroll at payroll@uoregon.edu about Banner entries and submitting audit reports/spreadsheets. Records & Data Management University Appointments Personnel Actions and Instructions References Faculty Specific Topics Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.