Performance Improvement Plan FAQs | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Performance Improvement Plan FAQs How do I know whether I should use a PIP? A PIP is an optional supervisory tool that gives OAs the opportunity to succeed while still holding them accountable for past performance. A PIP can be helpful when an OA is likely to benefit from a clearly documented plan that is specific about problem performance, behavioral expectations, steps to meet identified goals, and timelines. It is important to consult with HR’s Employee Labor Relations team to determine whether a PIP is appropriate for a given situation. At what point is a PIP developed? The timing of a PIP will depend on the situation. Most typically, it will be used alongside or after a letter of clarification or a letter of reprimand . Is a PIP a disciplinary step? The PIP itself is not considered a disciplinary step, but rather an opportunity for an employee and their supervisor to work together to address significant concerns regarding an employee’s performance.  There is a clear connection between a PIP and discipline in that a PIP is often used alongside other disciplinary steps, and a PIP that is not successfully completed typically leads to discipline. How is a PIP different from a letter of clarification or written reprimand? The contents of a PIP will often overlap with the contents of a letter of clarification or reprimand. A letter of clarification is intended to put an employee on notice of performance concerns that could lead to discipline if not addressed. A letter of reprimand is a disciplinary step that is documented and placed in an employee’s personnel file. A PIP is a documented plan that includes detailed metrics for improvement, including timelines. In addition, a PIP will include a documented follow up schedule to ensure that the supervisor is current on the employee’s progress. What if I don’t know what steps the employee should take to improve? Contact HR’s Employee and Labor Relations team for assistance in developing the contents of a PIP.  Once an initial draft is completed, it is important to get input from the employee to ensure the steps are effective from their perspective. If more than one of my employees has the same performance issues, can I use a PIP for only one of them? To some degree, it will depend on the situation (i.e. Does one employee have a history of performance concerns that others do not?), but generally, consistency is important.HR’s Employee Labor Relations team is available to consult about individual situations. What if performance improves during the period of the PIP and then gets worse again? In order to address this concern, the PIP process has two phases: The Evaluation Period and the Post-PIP Period . The evaluation period is the time covered by the contents of the PIP. It starts on the day the PIP is delivered to the employee and ends 60 days later (or longer depending on whether an extension is granted). The post-PIP period includes the 12 months after the completion of the evaluation period. During these 12 months, the employee and supervisor are expected to meet at the 6-month point and the 12-month point to review the PIP and ensure that the employee is continuing to sustain satisfactory performance. If satisfactory performance has continued, the PIP is officially closed 12 months after the completion of the evaluation phase. How do I know if the employee was successful in completing the PIP? The PIP should have specific, measurable goals, which should make it clear to both you and the employee whether they have been successful in meeting the goals. Situations may arise that make it difficult to determine whether there has been enough improvement to consider the PIP successfully completed. For example, an employee might complete some goals successfully, but not others. If you are unclear about the outcome of a PIP, contact HR’s Employee and Labor Relations team for assistance. What if my employee refuses to participate in the improvement plan?  What if they refuse to sign the PIP? The employee should be informed that the alternative to a PIP is disciplinary action. The appropriate disciplinary steps should be made in consultation with HR. It is important to document a refusal to participate in or sign a PIP. What are the consequences for not successfully completing a PIP? Can a PIP lead to termination? If an OA is unable or refuses to improve after the PIP 60-day evaluation phase, or if their performance actually worsens, the supervisor may elect to pursue discipline, up to termination for cause, for poor performance with 30 days advance notice of separation. Supervisors must consult with HR prior to issuing discipline. All PIPs should include the following language: It is important you understand that if your [performance/behavior] does not improve or is repeated, or future violations of policies or rules occur, further disciplinary processes and sanctions may be pursued up to and including termination. Any further disciplinary processes and sanctions, including termination, must be determined in consultation with HR. Can an employee grieve a PIP? Employees cannot typically grieve the contents of a PIP. However, allegations of discrimination, retaliation or other problematic behaviors associated with a PIP can lead to a grievance. In addition, employees can grieve disciplinary steps taken when a PIP is not successfully completed. Why do I have to contact HR if I plan to use a PIP with my employee? It is critical to work with HR to ensure compliance with policy, procedure, and law. In addition, HR staff can be an important resource related to PIP development, delivery, and management. Will a PIP be placed in the employee’s personnel file? Yes, once completed either successfully or unsuccessfully, a PIP will be kept in the employee’s personnel file for 5 years. Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.