Employee Engagement: Employee Strategies | Human Resources Skip to main content Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search Search Menu Human Resources Menu Benefits Benefits Overview Learn About Your Benefits UO Group Insurance UO Group Insurance Overview Medical Dental Vision Insurance Life Insurance Plan ID Numbers Employee Rates Optional Insurance Optional Insurance Overview Additional Life Insurance AD&D Insurance Disability Insurance Long Term Care Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) Overview FSA Details Manage your FSA Retirement Retirement Overview UO Retirement Plans Voluntary Retirement Plans Retirement Education Retirement Planning Guide Post Retirement Employment at UO Legislative Updates Legislative Updates Overview Health Insurance Updates Legislative Updates: PERS Wellness Programs Wellness Programs Overview Employee Assistance Program LifeBalance WW (Weight Watchers® Reimagined) Time Off Employee Leaves Employee Leaves Overview Employee Leaves For Faculty & Staff Professional Development Opportunity Fund Professional Development Opportunity Fund Overview Professional Development  Request Form Staff Tuition Benefit Staff Tuition Benefit Overview Eligibility Requirements Employee Enrollment Forms and Deadlines Residency Status Staff Rates Tax information Transfer the Benefit FAQ New Employee Benefits Resource Center New Employee Benefits Resource Center Overview Post-Doc Insurance Options Benefits for Part Time Teaching Faculty Quick Summary of Benefits Quick Summary of Services Making Benefit Changes Making Benefit Changes Overview Leave without Pay or Reduction in Hours/FTE Resources Resources Overview Affordable Care Act (ACA) Certificates-Life and Disability Insurance Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program Travel Benefits Open Enrollment Open Enrollment Overview 2024 Plan Changes Benefit Forms Staff Directory: Benefits Classification & Compensation Classification & Compensation Overview SEIU SEIU Overview Classification Specifications Classified Pay Actions Differential Pay SEIU Salary Schedule IT Positions Teamsters Teamsters Overview Classification Specifications Monthly Salary Schedule Officers of Administration Officers of Administration Overview Position and Pay Actions Compensation Structure Appeals Form Organizational Chart Guidance Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Career and Fixed Term Faculty Pay Actions Overview Form Form Guidance Position Descriptions Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Wage and Hour Laws and Guidelines Overview Meal and Rest Periods Travel Time Compensation Guidelines Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Oregon Equal Pay Act Implementation Overview Oregon Equal Pay Act Overview Timesheets and Work Week Employee & Labor Relations Employee & Labor Relations Overview Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Policies, Guidance, & Reporting Overview Bargaining: Guidance for Managers and Supervisors Flexible Arrangements Policy & Guidance Unionization and Employee Supervision Employee Groups & CBAs Employee Groups & CBAs Overview Officers of Administration Graduate Teaching Fellows Federation Service Employees International Union Teamsters United Academics University of Oregon Police Association UO Student Workers Representation Rights & Grievances Representation Rights & Grievances Overview Union Information Requests Accommodations Accommodations Overview Disability Accommodation Pregnancy Accommodation Notification Religious/Moral Accommodation Performance Management Performance Management Overview Classified Staff Faculty Officers of Administration Veterans Veterans Overview Definitions and Eligibility Supervisor Toolkit Supervisor Toolkit Overview OA Reference Request and Personnel File Request SEIU Steward Time Sheet SEIU Stewards List Templates/Forms International Employee Relations International Employee Relations Overview Written Laws Administrative Departments Executive Orders Security Checks and Enforcement Department Information DACA or TPS Work Authorization Life Events Life Events Overview Update Personal Information Separation Resources Separation Resources Overview Career Transition Resources Holiday Guidelines Workplace Climate Workplace Climate Overview Ombuds Program Respectful Workplace Notice Affirmative Action Affirmative Action Overview Affirmative Action Plans Equal Opportunity, Non-Discrimination, and Affirmative Action Policy Statement Laws and Executive Orders Myths and Realities Staff Directory: Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations HR Operations Overview University Appointments University Appointments Overview New Appointments Renewal Appointments Courtesy, Campus Associate, and other Unpaid Appointments Post-Retirement Appointments Temporary Faculty Appointments Summer Term Appointments DuckWeb: Notice of Appointment Process Personnel Actions and Instructions Personnel Actions and Instructions Overview Request To Offer (RTO) Leave of Absence Overload Compensation Stipend Requests Guide Title Change Separation & Transfer Direct Appointments HR Document Submission Forms References References Overview Contract Types EClass Codes Time and Attendance Records Job Change and Separation Reason Code Guide HR Document Submission Forms Workers Compensation NCCI Class Code Guide Faculty Specific Topics Faculty Specific Topics Overview Academic Classification and Rank Academic Titles and Abbreviations Faculty Awards Emerit Status Faculty Reclassification Process Postdoctoral NIH Minimums Rehire of Laid off or Non- Renewed Career Faculty Sabbatical Tenure Reduction Career Appointment Percent Changes Pro Tem Employment United Academics Faculty Union Exclusion List Guidance for HR Business Partners Deadlines for Appointments & PRFs Records & Data Management Records & Data Management Overview Classified Employee Records and Data Employee Demographic Information Employee Record Maintenance Guide and Audit Process Personnel Records Retention Schedule Supervisor Record Maintenance Annual Salary Increases: Faculty and OAs Staff Directory: HR Operations Learning & Development Learning & Development Overview Services MyTrack: Learning Module MyTrack: Learning Module Overview Tips & Instructions User Guide for Supervisors Tips & Instructions New Employee Orientation Programs Financial Stewardship Institute LinkedIn Learning LinkedIn Learning Overview Create your Account Custom Content Curators Frequently Asked Questions Online and Self-Guided Learning Online and Self-Guided Learning Overview Learning Challenges Training Resources for Student Supervisors New Employees: Get Started Respectful Workplace Trainings Respectful Workplace Trainings Overview Workplace Harassment & Discrimination Prevention Understanding Sexual Misconduct, Resources, and Employee Responsibilities HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources HR Community of Practice: Training and Resources Overview Foundational Training Benefits & Work-Life Resources Employee & Labor Relations Employee Engagement & Development Leadership & Strategy Operations Recruitment & Hiring Staff Directory: Learning & Development Programs & Services Programs & Services Overview Events and Recognition Programs Events and Recognition Programs Overview Outstanding Employee Awards UO Kids on Campus Day Years of Service Recognition Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Work-Life Resources Overview Employee Wellness Family Resources Life Events Navigating Work and Life Work-Life Resources Index YOU @ UO Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Overview Frequently Asked Questions Virtual Youth Program Guidelines What is a Youth Program? Youth Program Tool Kit: Human Resources Youth Programs Tool Kit: Risk Management Youth Programs: Training Staff Employee Engagement Guide Employee Engagement Guide Overview Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Recruitment Recruitment Overview MyTrack: Recruitment Module MyTrack: Recruitment Module Overview MyTrack User Guides & Tools MyTrack: FAQs User Roles & Permissions Applicant Support Careers @ UO Careers @ UO Overview FAQ: MyTrack for Applicants Background Check Information Employment Opportunities Veterans and UO Working @ UO Hiring Faculty and Staff Hiring Faculty and Staff Overview Hiring Classified Staff Hiring Faculty Hiring Officers of Administration Hiring Students Recruitment Advertising Guide Using a Search Firm Hiring Temporary Employees Recruitment and Hiring Toolkit Reorganizations Remote Interviewing Guidance International Employee Recruitment & Sponsorship Background Check Guidelines Background Check Guidelines Overview Credit Bureau Report Authorization Veterans' Preference Orientation & Onboarding Orientation & Onboarding Overview Onboarding Guide for Supervisors Contact Talent Acquisition Contact Talent Acquisition Overview Instant Messaging Guidelines Resources for: New Employees Employees Supervisors & HR Partners Job Seekers About HR Contact HR Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Human Resources Main navigation Benefits Classification & Compensation Employee & Labor Relations HR Operations Learning & Development Programs & Services Recruitment Breadcrumb Home Employee Engagement: Employee Strategies The following action steps provide ideas to help keep employees engaged at work and with one another: Promote a recognition-rich work environment. Connect with one another . Prioritize communication . Seek out professional growth opportunities. Find work-life balance . Take care of yourself and encourage others to do the same . Take the lead in your own engagement . 1. Promote a recognition-rich work environment. One of the most important influencers of job satisfaction and connection at work is giving and receiving recognition. Employees not only want to feel valued and appreciated by their supervisor but also by their co-workers. Usually people think of recognition coming from their supervisor, but positive feedback from peers can be just as powerful. Peer-to-peer recognition creates an atmosphere of gratitude that strengthens and builds relationships. It also cultivates a culture of appreciation so that recognition starts to flow in all directions, across departments and locations, even up and down the reporting structure. Recognizing the work and contributions of co-workers does not have to be anything grand or given in the presence of others. Take time to honor, support, and encourage one another for big acheivements and the less obvious ones that others may overlook. Consider finding ways every day to say thank you and to brighten someone's day by making them feel seen and valued. A simply moment of kindness and appreciation may be just what someone needs to get through a rough moment and find motivation to keep going. Learn More: 4 Surprising Benefits of Peer-to-Peer Recognition [article] Ideas for peer recognition [article] Ways to compliment coworkers [article] 2. Connect with one another. Find connection at work. How many people we know at work and how close we feel to those people, whether as friends or as community members – has a huge impact on how we feel, perform, and grow at work and in our careers. Experiencing more connection at work helps you achieve your goals more often, enjoy greater well-being, have more positive relationships, and grow more professionally. Learn More: Social Wellbeing: You Have Meaningful Friendships in Your Life [Gallup article] Why we need best friends at work [Gallup article, login required ] Beating Loneliness at work – January monthly learning challenge [LinkedIn Learning Path] Get good at small talk [LinkedIn Learning video, 3m] Don’t feel connected at work? Here’s what you can do about it [article] The power of using a name [article] Demonstrate respect, grace, kindness, and forgiveness of yourself and others. Bring your best self to work and create space for others to do the same. Extending grace and kindness cultivates a welcoming environment for all and sets a foundation to postively and respectfully work through challenges and differences. Learn More: Unconscious Bias [LinkedIn Learning course, 28m] Cross-Cultural Communication [LinkedIn Learning collection] Emotional Intelligence [LinkedIn Learning path] Reach Out to Others [LinkedIn Learning video, 2m 21s] 3. Prioritize communication. You feel more engaged when you feel like you’re part of a team. Whether you are working in-person or from home, it can be hard stay connected and feel a part of a team. Leveraging strong communication skills fosters team building, positively impacts workplace relationships, and improves problem solving to help you and your co-workers feel connected and collaborative. Some ways that you can help foster a sense of community through communication include: Communicate often with colleagues and with your supervisor. Offer support, share ideas, and talk about challenges and opportunities you are experiencing. Take the time to listen to one another. Expressing concerns and feeling heard are key to strengthening workplace relationships. Make it a priority to connect with colleagues by attending gatherings and engaing in conversations before a meeting starts. Reach out to those who are working virtually. Include them in meetings and impromptu discussions when possible. Organize virtual gatherings and activities such as a virtual coffee break or lunch, posting pet photos on a Teams channel, or initiating a virtual run/walk. Learn More: Building Trust with Colleagues in the Workplace [LinkedIn Learning path] Working on Teams: How to Make Collaboration Actually Work [LinkedIn Learning path] Constructive Candor: Important Conversations with Coworkers, Family, and Friends [LinkedIn Learning course, 1h 8m] Interpersonal Communication [LinkedIn Learning course, 37m] Conflict Management and Conflict Resolution [LinkedIn Learning collection] 4. Seek out professional growth opportunities. Developing your skills, expanding your knowledge, and acquiring new abilities helps you engage with your work in new ways and allows you to grow professionally on-the-job while also positioning yourself for new opportunities. Know your strengths and leverage them. Identifying and addressing areas of weakness is one approach to professional development, but it it may be more effective to focus on recognizing your unique strengths and cultivating them. Playing to your strengths builds confidence at work, connects to your natural talents, and fosters a sense of belonging as a meaningful contributor. Use self-assessment guides to identify your unique strengths such as Leverage Your Strengths in LinkedIn Learning [course, 1hr 10m] Assessment by others – Another way to discover your strengths is to ask five people you work with to identify what they feel are your strengths. With this feedback, look for any common traits or patterns. Then, make a list and determine what they suggest about you and your on-the-job performance. Create a personal learning plan. Taking charge of your own development empowers you to seek learning opportunities that excite you, connect to your motivations, and chart a path to your professional aspirations. Creating a clearer picture of what you hope to achieve by establish your own learning plan helps you grow and evolve so you can reach your full potential. Learn how to Build a Personal Learning Plan and Stick With It [LinkedIn Learning course, 51m] Set goals and work to achieve them. With the right strategies, any goal is attainable. Use the Defining and Achieving Professional Goals course in LinkedIn Learning [27m] to identify what is important to you and learn specific strategies for achieving your goals. Set yourself up for success by learning How to Set Goals when Everything is a Priority [LinkedIn Learning course, 15m] Transform your learning into action. Use the Action Planning worksheet available through Academic Impressions [ login required ] to reflect on what your learned and identify specific actions you can take in the next 30 days to put your learning to practical use at work. Through a continuous learning mindset, you can find opportunities to develop and grow through day-to-day assignments, challenging work-related projects, webinars and other targeted seminars, and digital learning platforms such as LinkedIn Learning and Academic Impressions . Consider these 7 reasons why continuous learning is important . Utilize the Online and Self-Guided Learning Library to help you improve your skills. Request feedback from your supervisor and co-workers and listen with an open mind and without defensiveness. Learn More: Seeking Feedback for Growth [LinkedIn Learning video, 45s] link Cultivating a Growth Mindset [LinkedIn Learning course, 58m] Asking for Feedback as an Employee [LinkedIn Learning course, 21m] Setting and Achieving Goals [LinkedIn Learning collection] How to Set Goals When Everything Feels Like a Priority [LinkedIn Learning course, 15m] 5. Find work-life balance. Employees can have difficulty establishing a healthy work-life balance. Refer to the work-life resources for tools and information that can offer you assistance with finding balance when managing both personal and professional responsibilities. Create boundaries between work and home life. Work with your supervisor to communicate about your workload and your personal obligations. Discuss timelines and set deadlines that position you for success. Access support and assistance resources through Canopy , our employee assistance program provider, and other community resources to help you find balance based on your needs and circumstances. Learn More: Recalibrate Your Work-Life Balance with These 4 Questions [Canopy article] Balancing Your Two Lives (Home and Work) [Canopy article] Improving Your Focus [LinkedIn Learning course, 50m] The Mindful Workday [LinkedIn Learning course, 40m] Happiness Tips [LinkedIn Learning course, 3h 31m] 6. Take care of yourself and encourage others to do the same. Before you can take care of other people, you must first take care of yourself. Get adequate sleep and exercise. Take a lunch break and other breaks throughout the day - go for a walk around the block, get fresh air, reach out to a colleague! Step away when you get overwhelmed. Five minutes away from the pressure of a situation can reset your outlook and help you constructively re-engage in your work. Be mindful of your emotional wellbeing and seek support, as needed. Visit the work-life resources page for opportunities and more information. Learn More: Improving Your Mental Health at Work [LinkedIn Learning course, 58m] Managing Stress, Anxiety, and Burn-Out [LinkedIn Learning collection] How to Manage Feeling Overwhelmed [LinkedIn Learning course, 43m] Developing Resilience [LinkedIn Learning collection] 7. Take the lead in your own engagement. Engaged employees have a vastly more positive workplace experience. Improve your experience by actively pursuing engagement while at work. Answer these questions to help you think about the things that contribute to your engagement: What are the most and least engaging moments in your day? What leads up to those moments? How do you work best, and what conditions set you up for success? What things during your day tend to zap your energy? Here are a few easy things to do to improve and increase your engagement today: Take a break with a friend at work to talk about one thing you learned recently and discuss how you are applying it to your life or job. Send a note or email to a coworker recognizing their commitment to excellence or quality on a particular project. Tell a coworker when you see their strengths in action, and describe what you appreciate about them. Take pride in our campus community and the awesome work taking place all around. Good news is all around us. Reflecting on the bright spots reinforces a sense of pride for being a Duck. Learn More: Take Control of Your Engagement [Gallup article, login required ] How to Beat Workplace Loneliness [LinkedIn Learning course, 25m] Increase Your Flexible Thinking Skills [LinkedIn Learning course, 32m] Creating Personal Connections [LinkedIn Learning course, 49m] Developing Your Emotional Intelligence [LinkedIn Learning course, 1h] UO Events Calendar Employee Engagement Guide Events and Recognition Programs Campus and Community Resources for Employees Work-Life Resources Youth Programs: Protecting Minors Employee Engagement Guide Employee Strategies Gallup Access Manager's Toolkit HR Service Center Required Workplace Notices and Posters Staff Directory: Programs & Services Human Resources Resources Employee and Labor Relations HR Operations HR Programs and Services Talent Acquisition Classification & Compensation Employee Leaves for Faculty and Staff Work-Life Resources University Partners Office of the Provost Office of Investigations & Civil Rights Compliance Safety and Risk Services Equity and Inclusion Division of Graduate Studies Payroll Services Banner Guide Oregon Public Universities Retirement Plans Human Resources 677 East 12th Ave. 5210 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-5210 P: 541-346-3159 F: 541-346-2548 Contact Us hrinfo@uoregon.edu Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.