Stalking | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Stalking Stalking Stalking occurs when an individual engages in a course of conduct directed at a specific person that would cause a reasonable person to (a) fear for the person’s own safety or the safety of others, or (b) suffer substantial emotional distress. “Course of conduct” means two or more instances, including but not limited to unwelcome acts in which an individual directly, indirectly, or through third parties follows, monitors, observes, surveils, threatens, or communicates to or about an individual, or interferes with an individual’s property. “Substantial emotional distress” means significant mental suffering or anguish. Stalking includes the concept of cyber-stalking, a particular form of stalking in which electronic media such as the internet, social networks, blogs, cell phones, texts, or other similar devices or forms of contact are used. Making a Safety Plan For information about making a safety plan please contact the SAFE hotline at 541‑346‑7233 (SAFE) or UO Police Department. For more information on how these behaviors may fall under the Student Conduct Code , contact the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards at conduct@uoregon.edu . 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.