Dating and Domestic Violence | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Dating and Domestic Violence Domestic or dating violence, also referred to as intimate partner or relationship violence, can be defined as a pattern of behavior in any relationship that is used to gain or maintain power and control over an intimate partner. Dating violence: Any act of violence committed by an individual who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the complainant. The existence of such a relationship shall be determined based on consideration of the length of the relationship, the type of relationship, and the frequency of the interaction between the persons involved in the relationship. For the purpose of this definition, dating violence includes, but is not limited to, sexual or physical abuse or the threat of such abuse. Dating violence does not include acts covered under the definition of domestic violence. Domestic violence: Any act of violence committed by a current or former spouse or intimate partner of the complainant, by a person with whom the complainant shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabitating with or has cohabitated with the complainant as a spouse or intimate partner, by a person similarly situated to a spouse of the complainant under the domestic or family violence laws in the state of Oregon, or by any other person against an adult or youth complainant who is protected from that person’s acts under the domestic or family violence laws in the state of Oregon. Abuse can happen to anyone regardless of race, economic status, gender, sexual orientation, or where one lives. People stay in abusive relationships for many reasons, including fear, belief that their abuser needs help and will change, and because they care about the person. No one deserves to be in an abusive relationship. Help is available. For more information on how these behaviors may fall under the Student Conduct Code , contact the Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards at conduct@uoregon.edu . 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.