University Support | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. University Support If you are (or someone you are with is) in immediate danger or feel unsafe, call 9‑1‑1. The University of Oregon is committed to fostering an environment free of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment and bullying, and stalking. We expect community members to engage in relationships and sexual interactions that are characterized by consent. University Supportive Measures: At your request, the university can provide you with supportive measures including: make a safety plan with you, offer academic support to decrease the likelihood that the experience impacts your student status, provide you resources to address any visa or immigration assistance, connect you with off-campus resources, provide financial support, and connect you with folks who can explore legal remedies like protection orders. Many of these supportive measures, and the others listed below, are available whether or not you choose to report to law enforcement. The Care and Advocacy Program in the Office of the Dean of Students is a good place to start to explore supportive measures. The Care and Advocacy Program staff provide crisis intervention services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Providing Academic and Employment Support The University of Oregon is committed to providing students with an environment where students may thrive in their educational pursuits.  Sexual assault, sexual harassment, dating or domestic violence, and stalking creates barriers to students completing their education. We work to ensure that all students receive the support and services that they need to be academically successful. Title IX of the 1972 Educational Act requires educational institutions to provide academic and employment support to students and employees, who experience sexual harassment, sexual assault or any other form of interpersonal violence. Academic and employment support may include, but is not limited to: Providing additional time to complete assignments or to take exams; Completing the course without attending the lectures; Providing academic support, such as tutoring; Arranging extra time to complete or re-take a course, or withdrawing from a course without an academic or financial penalty; Providing a no-contact order (NCO) between the victim and the perpetrator, where the victim and the perpetrator may not contact each other; Changing the perpetrator’s or the victim's course to prevent both students from being in the same course; Providing excused absence from employment for a reasonable time; and Changing the hours or department of employment at the UO. The University of Oregon must provide reasonable academic and employment support or other interim measures whether or not the student decides to report the matter to the university. These are determined on a case-by-case basis as appropriate to the circumstances. Staff from the Care and Advocacy Program, the Office of the Dean of Students, or the Title IX Coordinator may contact a faculty member, instructor, or a supervisor to arrange for academic or employment support for a student or employee who has experienced interpersonal violence. If a faculty member or supervisor has any questions about providing the academic or employment support, the faculty member should contact the Title IX Coordinator at 541-346-3123 or oicrc@uoregon.edu . Counseling Services The University Counseling Services offers confidential support, evaluation, and counseling for students experiencing personal difficulties as a result of having experienced an incident of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment or bullying, and stalking. Professional counseling staff, licensed psychologists or therapists with experience in trauma response and healing are available to assist students with personal counseling. Students can make an appointment with the Counseling Services by calling 541‑346‑3227 and asking to make an appointment with someone on the Interpersonal Violence Response Team. This team will help students connect with trained individuals and other services. Health Services University Health Services is committed to providing students with physical and emotional care following incidents of sexual harassment, including sexual assault. During clinic hours, students can be seen by medical professionals specially trained to care for those who have experienced these issues. There is no charge for this confidential appointment. The medical team provides services including emergency contraception, antibiotics to prevent infection, and physical exams and other services. Staff also treat students who are experiencing difficulty sleeping, anxiety, or depression. In addition, they can provide access to other resources, including referrals to on- and off-campus support services. If a student desires, there are medical professionals at University Health Services who have the ability to collect legally admissible evidence. This anonymous collection preserves evidence if a student decides to report at the time of the incident or at a later time. While it is better to collect evidence as early as possible, this is only done if the student chooses. Health center staff are not required to report the incident to law enforcement or to the university even if evidence is collected. To contact University Health Services, call 541-346-2770. Housing Supportive Measures Many students who have experienced sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment or bullying, and stalking no longer feel safe in their current living situation. The Care and Advocacy Program can assist students with a variety of housing options depending on their specific circumstances. On-campus housing accommodations : For students who live on campus, there are several options for alternate campus housing. Typically, only in cases where there is an emergency action and a pending conduct process would the UO remove the accused student from the housing community. However, in cases where the survivor does not choose to disclose who hurt them, does not wish to move forward with a formal report or investigation, the perpetrator is unknown, or based on victim’s request, there is usually the option of moving the survivor to an alternate housing location on campus. Off-campus housing accommodations : Students living off campus should contact the Care and Advocacy Program at 541‑346‑7233 (SAFE) to discuss alternative housing option and housing financial resources. ​Legal Services—Student Survivor Legal Services The University of Oregon's Student Survivor Legal Services offers legal support to student survivors of sexual assault, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking*. A licensed attorney is available to advise and represent survivors in a variety of areas, including: obtaining restraining and stalking protective orders asserting legal rights in criminal cases, student conduct code proceedings, and in housing and employment contexts taking other measures to help students maintain privacy and security To make an appointment with the Student Survivor Legal Services attorney, call 541‑346‑8619. *All information obtained in the course of representation will be held confidential consistent with state and federal law and is not subject to required reporting. Victim Assistance Fund Even though our nationally-recognized prevention efforts put us at the forefront of prevention education initiatives, the UO is like any other university in that interpersonal violence and harassment still occurs on our campus. When students are affected by sexual discrimination, harassment or violence, we offer comprehensive support services and interim measures to help them continue their education. One of the cornerstones of our effort is a fund to assist victims and survivors. This fund is available to student victims in need of financial resources to stay safe and engaged with their education. Many of these students do not have assistance from family or have chosen not to share their experience with their family and so are left with expenses as a result. Common uses of this fund include: Medical expenses related to assault, including STI preventive medications Counseling services Reimbursement of lost wages from absences due to trauma Moving costs if they need to relocate for safety concerns Emergency housing expenses Every year more students are gaining the courage to come forward to seek help and thus we anticipate requests to increase. The UO has made a commitment to not refuse any reasonable request that would help ensure the safety and health of a student survivor of sexual discrimination, harassment, and violence. The value of this fund cannot be overstated nor measured in dollars—every request granted works directly to assist students who would otherwise struggle to find physical safety, stay healthy, and obtain the basic needs necessary to continue their education. There are no administrative costs for this fund, so any contributions to this fund would go directly to the students it supports. For many of these students, a few hundred dollars of assistance is the difference between dropping out of school and continuing their education. Student survivors are often traumatized and feel alone, but through the use of this fund, we are able to show that they are cared for, valued, and belong at the UO. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. FAQs about University Support Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Filing a Complaint: Students have the right to file a complaint against the university. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.