Information for Victims and Survivors | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu Victims' Rights Laws and Resources × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Information for Victims and Survivors If you are (or someone you are with is) in immediate danger or feel unsafe, call 9‑1‑1. It was not your fault If you are the survivor of sexual harassment (including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment, and stalking) and someone has harmed you, it's not your fault. Ask for help—we have services for survivors Help is available for you on campus and in the community. You can call the hotline anytime day or night at 541‑346‑7233 (SAFE) to get support and talk about your options. You may or may not want to report the incident, and there are options for doing this. The decision is up to you. Either way, we encourage you to take advantage of services on or off campus. Take time to take care of yourself It is not uncommon to be physically and or emotionally traumatized. For your safety and well-being, you may want to seek medical attention. You can choose to go to University Health Services or Counseling Services for care or if you are having difficulty sleeping, eating, feeling anxious, or would like to speak about your experience in a confidential setting. An advocate from the Care and Advocacy Program can support and accompany you. Do things at your own pace and in your own time It can be very easy to feel helpless and powerless in these situations. This is a good time to surround yourself with people who support and understand your needs and honor your choices. You are not responsible for the perpetrator’s actions The perpetrator may have caused you to feel unsafe, vulnerable, and/or powerless. Remember, you did nothing to deserve or cause another person to hurt you. They chose to use their power to harm you. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.