Community Support | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Community Support If you are (or someone you are with is) in immediate danger or feel unsafe, call 9‑1‑1. All students have the option of contacting outside community agencies for support. These agencies do not have the same obligations as the university to report or investigate incidents. Outside agencies do not have authority to independently arrange on-campus remediation such as on-campus housing changes, academic accommodations, assistance with financial aid, student employment, or other academic and campus accommodations. For assistance with these type of accommodations please contact the SAFE hotline at 541‑346‑7233 (SAFE) and ask to speak with our staff. Community Agencies Sexual Assault Support Services (SASS) 541-343-7727 (SASS) SASS is a non-profit organization providing outreach, advocacy, and support to survivors of sexual violence as well as to their partners, families, and friends throughout Eugene, Springfield, and the rest of Lane County. Their advocates listen, believe, support, accompany, offer information and referrals, and provide peer counseling to survivors of assault—past and present. They maintain a 24-hour crisis and support line and offer 24-hour advocacy for survivors of sexual assault and sexual abuse. Hope and Safety Alliance (formerly known as Womenspace) 541-485-6513 Hope and Safety Alliance is a non-profit organization that provides the following services to survivors of domestic or dating violence and stalking in Lane County: Emergency shelter 24-hour crisis line Support groups Transitional programs Community education Legal advocacy Rural advocacy Lane County Victim Services 541-682-4523 Lane County Victim Services utilizes volunteers assigned to the court advocacy unit, the protective order unit, and the family violence unit. The goal of the program is to provide comprehensive services to adult crime survivors involved in the criminal justice system, whether or not they are involved with the prosecution of the offender. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. FAQs about Community Agencies 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.