Definitions and Common Questions | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Definitions and Common Questions When someone harms you, it can be hard to put a name on what happened and you are the only one who has the right to define what has happened to you. We hope, however, by providing some definitions of sexual misconduct , sexual exploitation , dating and domestic violence , and stalking , students will understand what we mean when we use these terms. Complete definitions can be found in the UO’s Prohibited Discrimination and Retaliation Policy . In addition, there are a variety of options on how to report and/or receive support. Navigating these resources can be confusing, so we have provided answers to some of our most frequently asked questions . We are always available to meet with students in person to discuss all the options and answer any questions or concerns in a confidential setting. You can call the hotline anytime day or night at 541‑346‑7233 (SAFE) for assistance. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.