Welcome | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Welcome WE CARE. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. Students Know your options Info for survivors Record in Callisto Meet our team Friends and Family Supporting a survivor Laws and resources Parent and Family Programs Meet our team Faculty and Staff Supporting a survivor Submit a report Reporting obligations Meet our team Support Happens Here If you are a victim or survivor of sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, sexual or gender-based harassment, and/or stalking and need help, start here. We have staff available 24 hours a day for confidential advice and assistance. Even if you are unsure what to do, call 541‑346‑7233 (SAFE) and you’ll be connected with somebody who will listen to you and help guide you as you figure out what you want to do next. We are here to support you and help provide the assistance and services you need. If you are a faculty or staff member who has been contacted by a student who has experienced sexual harassment (in any form), please call the Office of the Dean of Students at 541-346-3216 so we can help you provide appropriate support and referral to resources. If you are a faculty or staff member that wants support for an incident involving you or another faculty or staff member and it is an emergency, please contact 9‑1‑1. If there is no immediate danger to you or others, please contact the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance at 541‑346‑3123. The university does not discriminate on the basis of sex in any of its programs or activities. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University of Oregon’s Title IX Coordinator, who is located in the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights. Know your options I don’t know where to start Resources and services Intro Share your thoughts. As a community, we are committed to ending sexual harassment in all its forms. The site has been created to provide UO students with the information they need should they become a victim of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment and stalking. We are working diligently to provide the most accurate and comprehensive information possible, in a rapidly changing environment, and will add or clarify content as appropriate. If you would like to provide feedback, please do so below. Please DO NOT use the box below to report an incident of sexual harassment. Any submitted identifiable information involving an incident of sexual harassment may result in the university needing to take action. E-mail Must be from an @uoregon.edu e-mail address. What would you like us to know? Submit a Report to the University How to Be Supportive 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.