How to be Supportive | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. How to be Supportive Upon learning that a student has experienced sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment or bullying, and stalking, it may be hard to know what to say. The following suggestions will not “fix” the pain or make the trauma disappear, but reacting or acting in a supportive way can help them feel less isolated and safer. Do: Communicate these points: I’m sorry that this situation has happened. It’s not your fault. You’re not alone. Be calm. If you are in crisis, the victim or survivor may feel the need to take care of you rather than themselves. Be aware of the importance of separating your own experiences and emotions from them. Be informed. Learn about the services available on campus and in the community and be able to assist them in connecting to resources. Listen. Being a good listener means being non-judgmental and non-blaming. Try not to be intrusive. If they choose to report to law enforcement or the university, support them in those choices. Understand that it is normal for the person to experience a wide range of emotions and reactions. Don't: Don’t question their role in the situation. This could make the person feel that they are being blamed and were somehow responsible for the situation. Don’t tell them what you would have done. Don’t tell them what to do, but rather inform them the resources available. Don’t blame them. Don’t tell them how to feel or how you think they should feel. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.