Victims' Rights | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu Victims' Rights Laws and Resources × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Victims' Rights A (student or employee) victim or survivor of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment or bullying, and stalking shall be afforded the following rights: Survivors shall be notified of their options to notify law enforcement. Accuser and accused must have the same opportunity to have others present at any disciplinary proceeding. Both parties shall be informed of the outcome of any disciplinary proceeding. Survivors shall be notified of counseling services. Survivors shall be notified of options for changing academic, employment, transportation, financial aid, immigration, and living situations. Victim's or survivor's option to decline to notify authorities. Accuser and accused are entitled to the same opportunities to have others present at any disciplinary proceeding or related meeting including an advisor of their choice. Both parties shall be notified simultaneously of the outcome of any disciplinary hearing, procedures to appeal, any change of results prior to final results, and final results. Written notification to victims or survivors about victims' or survivors' rights, options, and assistance the school is required to provide, including the institution’s obligation to arrange appropriate accommodations for academic, counseling, health services, legal advocacy and assistance filing criminal reports, housing and transportation, financial aid assistance, immigration and visa assistance, help with employment concerns, and various other on-campus and off-campus needs. Information regarding how the institution will protect the confidentiality of victims or survivors, including how publicly available record keeping will be accomplished without the inclusion of identifying information about the victim or survivor, to the extent permitted by law. Written notification to students and employees about existing resources and services on campus and within the local community, including counseling, medical and mental health services, immigration and visa assistance, employment, financial aid assistance, and legal services. Filing a Complaint Against the University Students have the right to file a complaint against the university with the U.S. Department of Justice and/or U.S. Department of Education Office for Civil Rights. Additional Rights and Responsibilities Information on additional rights and responsibilities outlined in university policies and procedures, contact: Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards 541-346-1140 conduct.uoregon.edu Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance 541-346-3123 investigations.uoregon.edu 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Filing a Complaint: Students have the right to file a complaint against the university. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.