I Don't Know Where to Start | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. I Don't Know Where to Start If you are (or someone you are with is) in immediate danger or feel unsafe, call 9‑1‑1. It is completely normal for a student to need help or not know whether or not they would like to report an incident of sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment or bullying, and stalking. It is also every student's right not to report an incident to the university or law enforcement if they do not want the incident to be investigated. Students are NOT required to provide additional information about the incident or participate in a university investigation in order to receive services. Our goal is to provide all students with information on reporting options so they can make an informed decision. Confidential Resources Care and Advocacy Program UO Counseling Services UO Ombuds Program Student Survivor Legal Services ASUO Student Legal Services Reporting For information about reporting options visit the website for the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance . Callisto Record Callisto is a third-party service that provides an option for students to disclose and record experiences of sex- or gender-based discrimination, harassment, or violence, including stalking, bullying, dating, and domestic violence. You can record securely and privately what happened to you, and document the experience in a way that can help preserve important information if you later decide to make an official report. Callisto offers three choices: Record. You can create secure, encrypted, and time-stamped records about the sexual assault—on your own terms, at a time, place, and pace that is best for you. Report. You can electronically send the record you’ve created to the UO. This provides us with a detailed account of what happened, before you even meet with us. Match. You can help schools identify repeat offenders using Callisto’s optional matching function. Information about the perpetrator will only be released to the school if another student names the same perpetrator. Access UO Callisto 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Filing a Complaint: Students have the right to file a complaint against the university. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.