Know Your Options | Help for Victims and Survivors Skip to main content One Stop Apply Visit Give Search Search this site Search Search Menu Help for Victims and Survivors Menu Info for Survivors Info for Survivors Overview Victims' Rights Laws and Resources Know Your Options Know Your Options Overview I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support Resources Definitions and FAQs Definitions and FAQs Overview Sexual Misconduct Sexual Exploitation Dating and Domestic Violence Stalking FAQs Confidentiality About Our Team Take Action One Stop Apply Visit Give Help for Victims and Survivors Main navigation Info for Survivors Know Your Options Resources Definitions and FAQs About Our Team Main menu I Don't Know Where to Start University Support Help from Law Enforcement Community Support × Press “ESC” to exit quickly A new tab will open and this page will redirect to the UO home page. Know Your Options If you are (or someone you are with is) in immediate danger or feel unsafe, call 9‑1‑1. We Are Here to Help Students who have experienced sexual harassment, including sexual assault, dating or domestic violence, gender-based harassment, and stalking have options to report and receive help from a variety of sources, including the university , campus and local law enforcement , and community agencies . For those who are unsure of what to do , we have confidential staff who will review all available options so students can decide how they want to proceed. Options for Students to Report and/or Receive Help can be Found on the Website for the Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance Students can report and receive help from the university. Students can receive confidential support on campus. Students can report and receive help from law enforcement. Students can receive help from community services. Students can make an anonymous report to the university. Students can have evidence collected to use at a later time. The University of Oregon is committed to providing a comprehensive and integrated response to students who have experienced any form of sexual harassment. Our goal is to ensure that all students who report to the university are met with a caring and compassionate response, and are provided with access to all available resources necessary to continue their academic program. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Call anytime to speak with a counselor who can also connect you with other confidential resources. Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Filing a Complaint: Students have the right to file a complaint against the university. 24-HOUR HOTLINE FOR INFORMATION AND SUPPORT 541-346-SAFE Questions Regarding Title IX Contact: Nicole Commissiong Associate Vice President, Chief Civil Rights Officer, and Title IX Coordinator 5221 University of Oregon 677 E. 12th Ave., Suite 452 Eugene, OR 97403 P: 541-346-3123 oicrc@uoregon.edu US Department of Education, Western Region Office for Civil Rights P: 206-607-1600 ocr.seattle@ed.gov Office of the Dean of Students 5216 University of Oregon 185 Oregon Hall Eugene , OR 97403 P: 541-346-3216 Report a Concern Nondiscrimination and Title IX Accessibility Privacy Policy Careers About Find People © University of Oregon . All Rights Reserved.