BI170. Happiness: a Neuroscience and Psychology Perspective. 4 Credits.
Examination of studies in neuroscience and positive psychology that explore the mental and behavioral actions leading to the self-reporting of a well-lived and fulfilling life. Exploration of the interaction of multiple psychological and neural circuit variables in development of a positive mental state.

Honors College classes
HC101H - The Art and Science of Human Flourishing
Professor:Kate Mondloch
4.00 credits
* CRN 12397: Tuesday & Thursday, 8:30-9:50am @ CHA 301
* CRN 15669: Tuesday & Thursday, 2:00-3:20pm @ CHA 201
Across the ages, cultures have pondered the concept of human flourishingan existence filled with contentment, well-being, resilience, and accomplishment. In this discussion-based course, we delve into perspectives drawn from the humanities and sciences to explore the intricacies of flourishing and its core elements. You will be invited to formulate a personalized understanding of flourishingone that appreciates individual uniqueness while embracing shared facets spanning diverse cultures and contexts.
Through engaging and hands-on activities, including mindfulness practices, this course equips you with the tools to cultivate the qualities and competencies essential for a flourishing life. Guided by the intersections of humanities and sciences, each lesson dissects specific themes, facilitating a deeper grasp of self and others, fostering meaningful social connections, and igniting a sense of purpose. Join us on this intellectual and experiential journey as we navigate the depths of human flourishing, harnessing knowledge to enrich not only our own lives but also the interconnected fabric of our world.


HC231H - Human Care and Intimacy
Professor:Tobin Hansen
4.00 credits
* CRN 15678: Monday & Wednesday, 10:00-11:20am @ CHA 201
This course examines close human relationships through social scientific perspectives. We will question how people make their lives togetheror desire tothrough sharing or longing to share living spaces, things, emotions, and familial or other relationships. We will examine the following questions (and others): How do relationships emerge, change, become remade, strengthen, drift, and fray How do social identitiese.g., race, gender, sexuality, and social classand regional contexts shape peoples understandings and experiences of close human relationships And what are the implications of human relationships for the legal and political structures within which, or outside of which, they exist

We will explore care and intimacy in a variety of cross-cultural social domains and institutions, in situations of physical proximity or across regions and nations, including in families, domestic work, the military, gangs, and in the context of migration. We will consider human intimacy through written and visual texts and engage concepts, in discussion and writing, within and across scholarly disciplines such as anthropology, sociology, and philosophy and the multidisciplinary fields of cultural studies and gender studies.
