Aquatics (PEAQ)
PEAQ 111 Learn to Swim
Learn to swim and gain confidence in shallow and deep water. A beginning course for the non-swimmer to learn how to float, submerge comfortably, and move through the water.
PEAQ 121 and 122 Water Fitness
A cardio and strength building workout in the water. Work as hard as you want, move to the music, and use water equipment while remaining cool. This is a safe, low-impact, and effective workout (comfort in shallow and deep water recommended).
PEAQ 140 Paddleboard Yoga
Combine yoga poses with a variation of stand-up paddle boarding in the pool. Transitions between poses require more focus and concentration. Core muscles are engaged and strengthened while practicing yoga on a moving surface. No yoga experience required. Comfort with shallow water required.
PEAQ 201 Swimming I
A beginning course to learn breathing and fundamental stroke work in freestyle and backstroke. Prereq: ability to swim 25 yards and comfort in deep water.
PEAQ 202 Swimming II
An intermediate level swim course to master freestyle; improve technique in backstroke, breaststroke, and butterfly; and improve stroke efficiency and endurance. Prereq: Ability to swim 50 yards and comfort in deep water
PEAQ 203 Swimming III
An advanced level swim course emphasizing endurance, sprint, and stroke work. Must be proficient in all four strokes: butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and freestyle. Prereq: Swimming II or equivalent and ability to swim 500 yards continuously.
PEAQ 351 Lifeguard, CPR, FA
StarGuard Lifeguard Certificationincludes Lifeguarding, First Aid, CPR and AED for the professional rescuer and bloodborne pathogens. Physically demanding and requires comfort in deep water. Meets on two weekends in the term: Friday evening and Saturday morning. Prereq: ability to swim 100 yards, submerge to a depth of 12 feet, and tread water for 1 minute.
AquaticsScuba (PEAS)
PEAS 368 Scuba Basic (open water certification)
Learn to safely use scuba equipment through instruction and practice. Experience both fresh water and salt water dives in the Pacific Northwest. Mask, fins, and snorkel required. Course format: two 75-minute classroom sessions per week, two-hour in-water lab, and a weekend outing. Prereq: 200 yard swim and 10 minute tread.
PEAS 369 Scuba Advanced
Learn navigation, deep diving, night diving, and other specialty topics. Mask, fins, and snorkel required. Course format: two-hour classroom sessions for three weeks, in-water lab, and a weekend outing. The outing is a dive at Hoodsport, WA. Prereq: PEAS 368open water certification.
PEAS 370 Scuba Rescue Diver
Learn life-saving skills for diving. Experience tows, assists, in-water resuscitation, rescues, and removal techniques. Mask, fins, and snorkel required. Course format: One two-hour session per week, confined pool session, and a weekend outing. Prereq: PEAS 368open water certification.
PEAS 372 Scuba Deep Diver
Introduction to the varieties of multilevel diving. Multilevel dive calculators, dive planning, organization, procedures, techniques, and safety. Mask, fins, and snorkel required. Course format: One two-hour session per week and a weekend outing. Prereq: PEAS 368open water certification.
PEAS 376 Scuba Night Diver
Introduction to night dive planning, organization, procedures, techniques and potential problems. Learn to control buoyancy, navigate and communicate at night. Mask, fins, and snorkel required. Course format: One two-hour classroom session per week and a weekend outing. Prereq: PEAS 368open water certification.
PEAS 378 Scuba Nitrox
Instruction in diving with enriched air to extend no decompression limits, increasing time spent underwater. Mask, fins, and snorkel required. Course format: One two-hour classroom session per week plus one weekend outing. Prereq: PEAS 368open water certification.
PEAS 380 Scuba Underwater Photography
Learn the PADI SEA (shoot, examine, and adjust) method to take full advantage of digital technology. The result is good underwater photos faster than you may imagine. Underwater camera systems are provided. Mask, fins, and snorkel required. Course format: One two-hour classroom session at Eugene Skin Divers Supply per week, one confined pool session, plus one weekend outing. Prereq: PEAS 368open water certification.
PEAS 381 and 382 Scuba Dive Master
Become certified to help teach diving. Learn to assist a PADI instructor organize, conduct, and supervise open water certification candidates. Develop your theoretical diving knowledge in preparation of becoming an instructor. Mask, fins and snorkel required. Course format: two-hour classroom session one time per week. Prereq: 18 years old, Rescue Diver Certification, 20 logged dives, current CPR and First Aid certification.
Fitness (PEF)
PEF 131 and 132 Body Sculpt I and II
Use a variety of equipment to challenge every major muscle group in the body with a focus on muscular endurance and strength.
PEF 145 F45: Functional Fitness
In 45 minutes, combine functional movements, agility, and diverse strength training stimuli ranging from heavier, shorter weight training intervals to light weight endurance sets, allowing the body to constantly grow stronger. F45 offers hundreds of exciting exercises, all easily adaptable to different fitness levels. 
PEF 199 Beginning Strength
In this beginner class we will learn the basic principles and application of exercise, strength, cardio and interval training. All class participants will move at their own pace as we progress over the term. We will emphasize having fun and building community alongside your fitness journey! This is a great class for students who have participated in PEF 131/132 Body Sculpt and looking to expand their to fitness in the weight room.
PEF 199 Country Western Partner
Country western dancing is one of the most diverse and popular forms of social dancing, comprising both line and partner dance styles. In this class, we will learn about the most popular and foundational partner dance styles that comprise Oregons country dance scene, with a focus on fundamentals for leading and following. A partner is not required to register.
PEF 199 Line Dancing
Non-partner dance routines in country western style; musical interpretation, footwork, and sequencing of approximately 20 different routines.
PEF 199 Step Aerobics
Step Aerobics incorporates choreographed step combinations and muscular strength intervals for a full-body workout. Control your workout changing your speed, coordination, and agility, with modifications offered to vary complexity and intensity.
PEF 205 Pilates Yoga Fusion
Pilates-based exercises are paired with yoga practice. Students will enhance muscular strength, endurance, flexibility, and balance while centering their minds and reducing stress.
PEF 208 Barre
A combination of controlled movements and postures inspired by Pilates, yoga and ballet, with elements of aerobics that deliver a total body workout. Using the barre as a prop, and other fitness equipment, students will focus on posture, body awareness, strength, flexibility, and balance through low-impact, isometric and dynamic movements. All fitness levels welcome and no dance or ballet experience necessary.
PEF 221 Crossfit I
Combine constantly varied, functional movements in different workout formats that push your intensity. Youll build strength, endurance, power, and agility in a supportive, encouraging, team-oriented environment. All fitness levels welcome and no experience required.
PEF 222 Crossfit II
Use intermediate to advanced gymnastics, weightlifting, and other exercises to maximize all levels of fitness. Set goals, train hard, and reach your potential by challenging yourself and your community. We recommended that you have basic CrossFit or weight lifting experience before entering the class.
PEF 241 Group Cycling I
Workouts are performed on a specialized stationary cycle. Exercise to music using a variety of cycling positions and drills. Students learn to operate and adjust the indoor cycles, enhance their cycling mechanics, and improve cardiorespiratory fitness and muscular endurance.
PEF 243 Cycle Sculpt
A combination of indoor cycling and functional strength training for students who are pressed for time and want to improve strength, endurance and cardio conditioning. Appropriate for all fitness levels, learning to apply various riding techniques and full body exercises.
PEF 251 Fitness Kickboxing
Practice jabs, punches, footwork, and kick patterns adapted from martial arts for overall fitness benefits. A unique twist on cardiovascular training with moves choreographed to music.
PEF 301 Core and Stretch
Develop core strength and flexibility through a program of traditional sport- and Pilates-based exercises.
PEF 321 Zumba
A Latin dance and world music inspired workout. Choreographed routines are easy for participants of all levels to enjoy. Increase cardiovascular fitness and improve dance skills.
PEF 326 Fitness Dance
Learn dance moves and routines inspired by current top 40s hits, music videos, and hip hop.
PEF 335 Healthy Cooking
Learn cooking basics and nutrition education through a combination of lecture and hands-on activity. Class time will be used for food preparation and tasting, a grocery store tour, deciphering food labels, shopping on a budget, and basic cooking techniques for grains, vegetables, and proteins. Course format is offered as a weekend workshop, meeting once per term on a Friday evening, Saturday and Sunday.
PEF 340 Personal Trainer
Through a combination of lecture and activity, students prepare for the American Council on Exercise (ACE) Personal Trainer certification exam. This course provides information and learning activities on principles of exercise science, fitness assessments, exercise design and implementation and behavior change, and coaching one-on-one. Instructor approval required.
PEF 342 Group Fitness Instructor Training
Through a combination of lecture and activity, students prepare to instruct group fitness workouts and complete the American Council on Exercise (ACE) certification exam. Gain practical experience in group fitness leadership skills and learn principles of exercise, class design, music selection and coaching a group. Recommendation: previous participation in group exercises classes. Instructor approval required.
PEF 344 Eat, Move, and Be Well
Through a combination of lecture and activity, students learn and apply a lifestyle approach (nutrition, exercise, and stress management) to creating healthy habits. Course format: currently offered asynchronous online; for credit only. Involves weekly content, assignments and discussion (to evoke positive lifestyle change and increase knowledge of nutrition and exercise) and two independent weekly movement sessions to increase cardiovascular fitness and muscular endurance. Option to take the course graded or pass/no pass.
PEF 345 Nutrition and Performance
This lecture based course explores the influence of nutrition on athletic performance and health. Develop skills in nutritional analysis and implement a plan for improving personal dietary and training behaviors.
PEF 347 Nutrition Daily
Evaluate and learn how nutrition is uniquely related to your personal goals. Understand macronutrients and how to create balanced meals by cooking and sharing ideas with class community. Course format: currently offered asynchronous online; for credit only with grading as pass/no pass.
PEF 399 Special Studies Well-Being Coaching
Through a combination of lecture and application, students prepare to be health and well-being coaches and complete the American Council on Exercise (ACE) certification exam. Learn how lifestyle factors and behaviors impact stress, nutrition, physical activity, substance use, and sleep. Understand how coaching empowers people to take ownership of their well-being, and to discover their own motivation for lasting behavior change. This course is designed to give you both the knowledge and skills needed to assess a clients lifestyle behaviors and then support them through behavior change in a one-on-one coaching setting. Instructor approval required.
Individual Activities (PEI)
PEI 201 and 202 Juggling I and II
Introduces and develops juggling skills. Emphasis on creative exploration, relaxation, and fun. Level II continues the development of juggling skills with balls, rings, clubs, and other props.
PEI 241 Golf I
An introduction to the game that includes swing techniques for distance, pitching, chipping and putting; rules, etiquette, and golf vocabulary. Spend the majority of class time at the driving range. Students must provide their own transportation to River Ridge Golf Course, 3800 North Delta Highway.
PEI 242 Golf II
Designed for the experienced golfer to review swing techniques for all situations, rules, etiquette, and golf vocabulary. Students refine skills on the course and have friendly games with classmates. Students must provide their own transportation to River Ridge Golf Course, 3800 North Delta Highway.
PEI 243 Golf III
Allows the advanced golfer to hone basic skills with an emphasis on course play and time on the driving range and putting green. Students must provide their own transportation to River Ridge Golf Course, 3800 North Delta Highway.
PEI 244 Golf Swing Exercise
Focus on off-season exercises, and building strength and strategies to improve your golf swing from start to finish. PGA pro will work with each student on their specific needs. A great winter activity for the serious golfer.
Leadership (PEL)
PEL 310 Coaching
Designed to address all aspects of coaching from kindergarten through college-level team sports. Topics include philosophy, organizational techniques, writing workouts, discipline, and others.
PEL 311 Coaching II
Practical application of knowledge and skills from Coaching I (PEL 310) by implementing strategies and techniques in teaching and coaching situations. Students write a practice plan and teach a technical and tactical skill to the class. Learn how to evaluate, scout, and breakdown film and understand basic care and prevention of athletic injuries. Prereq: PEL 310 or equivalent experience.
PEL 399 Special Studies: Evolution of Sport and Physical Education
Journey through time to understand the role that history, philosophy, educators, religion, politics, media, and money have played in shaping the role of sports and physical education today. Begin with ancient Greece and work through current times. Discuss who influenced sports and physical education and why change has occurred so often. Women have made many contributions in sports and how that has affected physical education. Specifically learn how physical education began at the UO and how we are unique in the country.
PEL 406 Practicum
An opportunity for students to assist a physical education instructor in our courses. Applicants must have significant experience and interest in the activity, and be willing to assist in many ways. Instructor approval required.
PEL 406 Practicum Coaching
Students need to be coaching during that term for a local organization such as the YMCA, Kidsports, etc. They need to coach for at least four weeks with a minimum of 20 hours. They will need to have a coaching philosophy, practice plans, to be observed twice and need to write a reflection paper.
PEL 406 Practicum Outdoor
These opportunities provide hands-on leadership and teaching experiences to students working towards completion of the Outdoor Pursuits Leadership Training Program. Students serve as course assistants under the mentorship of OPP instructors. Instructor approval required.
Martial Arts (PEMA)
PEMA 115 Self-Defense
Self-defense is more than learning how to fight; the three As of self-defense: awareness, assessment, and action. The main theme is prevention. Work with a partner in class to create different situations for physical response.
PEMA 116 Women, Trans, and Non-Binary Self-Defense (2 credits)
In a holistic approach to self-defense and sexual assault prevention, this course teaches both physical and verbal strategies and techniques. Physical skill content includes the three As of self-defense: awareness, assessment, and action. The awareness and empowerment content includes boundary setting, de-escalation, verbal strategies, assertiveness, and healthy relationship skills. All self-identified women and non-binary people who are comfortable in a space centered around experiences of those who identify as or may be perceived as women are welcome. Course format: two weekly activity sessions and one weekly empowerment session.
PEMA 199 Special Studies: Boxing
Learn and practice boxing.
PEMA 255 Kickboxing
Combines the best martial arts from around the world including Thai kickboxing, western boxing, savate, and more. Train feet, hands, knees and elbows, as well as kickboxing-specific conditioning.
PEMA 311 and 312 Jeet Kune Do I and II
A combative activity that incorporates striking, kicking, grappling, limb immobilization techniques and weaponry. Conceptual basis and history of Jeet Kune Do and Filipino martial arts.
PEMA 321 and 322 Jiu Jitsu I and II
A combative activity that incorporates exercises, throwing and falling techniques, grappling, escapes, holds, and learning to maintain a safe position.
PEMA 331 Mixed Martial Arts I
Combines Muay Thai Kickboxing, wrestling, and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu.
PEMA 332 Mixed Martial Arts II
More intermediate and advanced skills from Mixed Martial Arts  I, this is a faster paced class with light sparing and conditioning. Prereq: PEMA 331 Mixed Martial Arts 1 or training in kickboxing and grappling.
PEMA 399 Special Studies: Womens Self Defense II (1 credit)
This course is a continuation of the physical self-defense skills that are introduced in Womens Self Defense I. The pace and challenge of the techniques will increase, and new skills will be introduced. Course format: two weekly 50-minute activity sessions. Prerequisites: Students must complete PEMA 116 Womens Self Defense or PEMA 115 Self-Defense before enrolling in this course.
Outdoor Pursuits (PEO)
PEO 242 Bouldering
Introduction to the world of climbing without the security of a rope. Emphasis is on safety, skill development, and conditioning.
PEO 251 Rock Climbing 1
Practice indoor rock climbing and cover the basics including equipment, knots, belaying, rappelling, and a range of climbing techniques.
PEO 252 Rock Climbing Fitness
Emphasis on climbing fitness and conditioning, improving climbing techniques and preventing injuries.
PEO 285 Wilderness Survival
This classroom-based course serves as a prerequisite to all backcountry-oriented courses. Topics include dressing for outdoor comfort and safety, nutrition and hydration, map and compass, environmental injuries, weather and lightning, safety and survival, wilderness management, and backcountry ethics.
PEO 331 Outdoor Rock Climbing
Build on the skills learned in Rock Climbing I and prepare for the transition to independent outdoor climbing. The highlight is a three-day outing to Smith Rock State Park.
PEO 315 Basics of Technical Rescue
Introduction to basic technical systems such as knots, rope work, anchor building, rigging for rescue, raising and lowering systems, litters, carries, and improvised rescue techniques.
PEO 325 Swift Water Safety
Focus on safely negotiating shallow and deep swift water streams. Topics include knots, rigging, and rope management techniques; shallow and deep water crossings.
PEO 351 Backpacking
Designed for students with little or no backpacking experience. Classroom sessions prepare students for a three-day introductory backpacking outing to the Oregon coast.
PEO 353 Backcountry Cuisine
Students learn how to plan menus, package food, and implement leave no trace cooking and baking techniques utilizing backcountry stoves and cooking systems.
PEO 356 Backcountry Navigation
Focus on map and compass skills and other techniques for traveling safely and efficiently off-trail in the context of a three-day outing to a spectacular region of the Three Sisters wilderness area.
PEO 362 Mountaineering
Class sessions cover planning, safety, hazards, knots, rope work, and rigging. The three-day outing to the Three Sisters wilderness area introduces basic skills such as ice ax use, self and team arrests, roped travel, snow anchors and belays, and rescue systems.
PEO 366 Vertical Rescue Techniques
Focus on technical rescue skills for a single rescuer, including belay escapes, raising and lowering rescues, and rappelling with an injured person in a ground school setting before practicing these skills during an on-campus outing held at the Rec climbing wall.
PEO 371 Snow Camping
Class sessions prepare students for a three-day outing into the Oregon Cascades. Students learn winter camping and travel techniques, and snow shelter construction methods.
PEO 391 Winter Navigation
This two-credit course includes multiple classroom sessions and a three-day backcountry travel/navigation outing in the Oregon Cascades. Classroom topics include cold weather clothing and equipment requirements, a review of thermoregulation and cold injuries, Leave No Trace travel and camping ethics, and winter navigation and survival techniques. The focus of this outing is on developing efficient backcountry navigation and winter camping skills.
PEO 392 Backcountry Survival
Emphasizes constructing emergency shelters, building survival fires, and learning a host of other techniques critical to surviving an unexpected night out with minimal gear.
PEO 399 Special Studies: Basic Keelboat Sailing
Learn to skipper a 24 sloop-rigged keelboat, in light to moderate winds and sea conditions. Learn basic sail terminology, parts and functions, seamanship and safety. Gain confidence learning to sail independently with lots of hands-on practice.
PEO 399 Special Studies: Intro to River SUP
This introductory course focuses on safety, enjoyment, and skill acquisition for the beginner to intermediate stand-up paddle boarder. The course will start with flat water skill development and work toward the aptitude needed to run rivers with entry level current.
PEO 399 Special Studies: Snow Camping II
This two-credit course is designed for students with snow camping experience. The course emphasis route and expedition planning, lightweight winter camping techniques, and constructing fire pits in the snow environment. The three-day intensive outing route is designed by the students in class prior to trip.
PEO 399 Special Studies: Wilderness First Aid
This course is for people of all experience levels who enjoy or work in outdoor recreation. You'll learn the Patient Assessment System, how to provide effective first aid treatments for injuries and illnesses common in the outdoors, and how to make appropriate evacuation decisions. You will receive a Wilderness First Aid (WFA) certification on completion of the course.
PEO 399 Special Studies: Wilderness First Responder
SOLOs Wilderness First Responder (WFR) course is the recognized industry standard for those who work as backcountry trip leaders, camp counselors, mountain guides, river guides, and ski patrollers. The WFR is the perfect course for anyone working in a position of leadership in an outdoor setting or for individuals who want a high level of wilderness medical training for extended personal backcountry trips or expeditions.
PEO 411 Leadership Dynamics (2 credits) graded only
Discover how leadership, group dynamics, risk management, and other factors play an integral role in shaping the character, productivity, and safety of teams. Instructor approval required.
PEO 412 Field Leadership (2 credits) graded only
Focus on camp-craft, field leadership, navigation, and safety skills. Includes a three-day outing and van driver training. Prereq: PEO 285 Wilderness Survival and PEO 351 Backpacking or equivalent experience.
PEO 413 Leading in Nature (2 credits) graded only
Focus on the natural history of the regions we explore on field outings and on developing outdoor teaching skills. Instructor approval required.
________________






Weight Training (PEW)
PEW 211 Weight Training I
Beginning technique course for all basic lifts and a variety of workout formats designed to develop strength and muscular endurance.
PEW 212 Weight Training II
Advanced weight training exercises and impeccable technique in the basic lifts is reinforced. Students can expect some independent work.
PEW 211 and 212 Womens Weight Training I and II
A combination of beginning and intermediate level weight training. All self-identified women welcome.
Team Sports (PETS)
PETS 101 Bocce Ball
Skills, drills, offensive strategies, rules and lots of game play. Yes, this is a team sport!
PETS 111 Flag Football
Skills, drills, offensive and defensive strategies, rules and seven on seven games.
PETS 232 Volleyball II
Skills, drills, offensive and defensive strategies, rules, and lots of game time. Knee pads are recommended.
PETS 233 Volleyball III
Skills, drills, big hits, occasional blocks, aces, and lots of play. Knee pads are recommended.
PETS 242 Basketball II
Shooting, ball handling, defense, give and go, back door, screen and roll and some rules.
PETS 243 Basketball III
Offenses, defenses, drills, rules and full-court action.
PETS 252 Ultimate Frisbee I
Throws, catching, moves, strategies, rules, and a lot play.
PETS 253 Ultimate Frisbee II
Improve your skills and team play. Dont be afraid to get dirty.
PETS 261 Soccer I
Skills, drills, thrills, and spills. Offense, defense, rules and play.
PETS 262 Soccer II
Skills, drills, shot, combos, strategies, and play.
PETS 263 Soccer III
More high level skills, banana kicks, dives, headers, rules, philosophy and great team play.
PETS 265 Indoor Soccer
Four walls, two goals, one ball and non-stop action. Skills, drills, strategies, and play
Running (PERU)
PERU 101 Fitness Walking
Introduction to recreational fitness designed to increase cardiovascular endurance and emphasizing walking with ease, efficiency and enjoyment.
PERU 131 Jog and Run
Introductory course where emphasis is placed on executing proper running mechanics, increasing ones cardio-respiratory endurance and learning about injury prevention. Running distance from 13 miles.
PERU 331 5K Training I
Designed for runners who have established a running base and want to increase their speed and prepare for road races. Running distance from 35 miles.
Running (PERU)
PERU 101 Fitness Walking
Introduction to recreational fitness designed to increase cardiovascular endurance and emphasizing walking with ease, efficiency and enjoyment.
PERU 131 Jog and Run
Introductory course where emphasis is placed on executing proper running mechanics, increasing ones cardio-respiratory endurance and learning about injury prevention. Running distance from 13 miles.
PERU 331 5K Training I
Designed for runners who have established a running base and want to increase their speed and prepare for road races. Running distance from 35 miles.
Racquet Sports (PERS)
PERS 199 Special Studies Pickleball
Learn the basics of pickleball and explore the different aspects of the game and yourself from a beginners perspective. Community focus and all skill levels welcome.
PERS 211 and 212 Table Tennis I and II
An introduction to table tennis strokes, techniques, and strategies. Level II is for those with intermediate to advanced skills, emphasizing more challenging techniques and styles of play.
PERS 231 and 232 Badminton I and II
An introduction to badminton strokes, techniques, and strategies. Level II is for those with intermediate to advanced skills, emphasizing more challenging techniques and styles of play.
PERS 271 Tennis I
An introduction to tennis strokes, techniques, and strategies.
PERS 272 Tennis II
Intermediate level, development, and refinement of strokes and strategies.
PERS 273 Tennis III
For those with advanced tennis experience only, emphasizing more challenging techniques and styles of play.

